Only if he can be trusted.
I'm curious how you did this with such economy.
You watch and learn. I earn his trust. Then more pain. Then I appear with kindness. Within a week he will follow me around like a dog.
But will he be house-trained?
The cocaine brand, 911, is an East Coast brand, a Juarez Cartel brand, and you must know it usually comes through into El Paso?
I'm aware of that.
Let me ask you a hypothetical question: if Salazar worked for Madrigal and the Juaraz cartel, and he went out of power, would it mean the Juarez Cartel is losing influence?
It could mean that, yes.
That would probably mean the Tijuana Cartel is gaining power?
It's possible.
My work keeps me young.
Which part, getting terrorists loose on bail or freeing convicted murderers on technicalities?
The worst serial killer in history - who? Gacy - right? Killed forty two people. Our government killed fifty thousand in Vietnam and lied about it every day.
Michael, you represent drug dealers, not civil libertarians.
We kidnapped Noriega out of Panama. Is that covered in your Constitution? Because it isn't in mine.
Noriega is a criminal.
Noriega was head of a sovereign nation who made the mistake of doing business with the U.S. Government. So, no, I don't have a problem waking up every day and fighting our government, fighting people like you, trying to keep this system a little bit honest.
Last I read your clients were chopping people up with chainsaws and delivering illegal narcotics into this country.
I hope when you were on the bench, Judge Wakefield, you didn't handle the presumption of innocence in the same fashion.
The busiest land border crossing in the world. Over forty-one thousand vehicles per day, twenty-two thousand pedestrians on foot. I think we do a pretty good job but we know a lot of drugs are still getting through.
Any idea how much?
I've read official estimates but I wouldn't bet my house on them. I've heard the entire cocaine supply for the United States can fit into four tractor-trailers. At least a half-dozen of those cars right out there are carrying a load of dope, with drivers employed by people who don't give a damn if they're caught or not.
What do you look for?
We ask questions and measure the answers. When something doesn't ring true, a fact that doesn't make sense, a slight hesitation, then it's off to secondary for a closer look. Before NAFTA we had about 1.9 million trucks a year. Now it's almost double. Pretty soon there'll be Mexican truck companies that will have as much freedom in crossing the border as American truck
Any way we can do it better?
Sure. More money in intelligence on their side of the border. So we have a better idea who we're looking for. More dogs. More people. Supposed to be getting some giant x- ray machines to run the trucks through. Outside of martial law that's about the best you're gonna do. But, I should tell you, there are two things that really have us on
That triple the amount of stuff is going through.
I'm looking for my daughter, Caroline. She comes here.
This is a business. Get the fuck outta here.
Who the fuck do you think you are? Where the fuck do you think you are? Why the fuck do you think I shouldn't just put you in a dumpster?
I have money --
I got money.
I'll pay you a thousand dollars. I have it in my wallet.
I want your money, I'll take your money.
She's not at that place you sent her?
She snuck away. And we haven't seen her. She hasn't come home.
Oh, man --
She hasn't called you?
Can you tell me anything? Do you have any ideas?
I don't know what to say.
I'm not the police. I don't care about experimentation. She's a kid. I'm worried to death.
You won't say anything to my parents?
I don't give a fuck about your parents --
We sometimes went downtown to score.
What?
The West End. We buy it off the streets. I can stop, you know, and she can't. Two people, really similar, we can talk about anything, but for me it's like a weekend thing, then I get my shit together, and for her it's different --
Hey man, I'm sorry. I'm just trying to help.
I don't know, maybe we missed her.
I can't believe you used to bring my daughter here, to this place.
I recruited the best men in Mexico for my task force and put them through a rigorous screening process. Not only physical, but also psychological.
I'd like to bring you up to Washington, walk you around our side of things, and share some of the information we've been able to develop on your cartels.
You've been making very good progress against the Tijuana cartel.
Yes, I am confident that Juan Obregon will be taken into custody before the end of the year. But, you must understand that it is very difficult because of corruption in the police force. We get a tip that he is one place, then we get there and he is already gone, having been warned by someone on our side.
Hopefully the exchange of training methods and information between our countries will help with this problem.
Yes, I hope so as well.
Let me ask you a related question. We've talked about the supply side, but what about demand? What is your policy for treating addiction?
I just want to be clear about one thing. I used to work for him, but now I work for you. I'm not a partisan person, I'm an issue person. In the next few weeks, if you allow me, we'll get you well-versed on an incredible array of issues. The most important of which, in my opinion, being Mexico. I know everybody that you're
Like you protected Landry?
Hello.
Salazar's been taken down. He was working for Porfirio Madrigal.
What? I thought Madrigal was dead. I thought it was verified.
Apparently not. Look, it's a shit storm here right now. When are you coming back? I don't know what to tell people any more.
I'll get there as soon as I can.
Who are these guys?
He died in a liposuction surgery, right?
Who do we interface with on their side?
What do you mean?
I mean, who runs interdiction on the Mexico side?
What do we do? Okay. Fucked-up Bowman's turning blue. Doctor. We need a doctor.
Your dad's a doctor. Call him --
He's a research doctor. You're dad's a doctor, too --
What kind of research?
Mapping the fucking pig genome. We'll call your dad, he's a neurosurgeon --
Did you tell him?
What?
The cards. The last thing I said to you was mind the cards.
Well, I've not brought them.
It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
Well, I've not brought them.
It's fucking boring after a while without the cards.
I'm sorry.
Bit fucking late, like.
Well, why didn't you bring them?
Because I fucking told you to do that, you doss cunt.
OK. Same again?
I'll be right after you.
I want the money, Mark, that's all.
I don't know, maybe I'll buy something for my ma, and then buy some good speed, no bicarb like, then get a girl, take her out like, and treat her -- properly.
Shag her senseless.
No, I don't mean like that -- I mean something nice, like, that's all --
Shut you mouth or you'll be next.
You've stabbed me, man.
Twenty thousand.
But it's not worth more than fifteen.
For fuck's sake.
Sorry, mate, I'll get you another.
All down my fucking front, you fucking idiot.
Look, I'm sorry, I didn't mean it.
And remember, Rents: no skag.
It's a scandal, Franco.
What?
Hey, I'm wanting a bet put on.
Can you not go yourself.
I'm no a fucking buftie and that's the end of it.
Yes, you fucking do. I've seen your statement.
Jesus.
Two thousand, one hundred and thirty- three pounds.
This was his nightmare. The dodgiest scam in a lifetime of dodgie scams being perpetrated with three of the most useless and unreliable fuck-ups in town. I knew what was going on in his mind: any trouble in London and he would dump us immediately, one way or another. He had to. If he got caught with a bagful of skag, on top of
Buy yourself that island in the sun?
We'll be half-way down the road with the money.
I'd fucking kill you.
Cool down, Franco. The guy's sorry.
Excuse me, I don't mean to harass you, but I was very impressed by the capable and stylish manner in which you dealt with that situation. I thought to myself: she's special.
Thanks.
What's your name?
Diane.
Where are you going, Diane?
I'm going home.
Where's that?
It's where I live.
Great.
What?
Do you find that this approach usually works, or, let me guess, you've never tried it before. In fact, you don't normally approach girls, am I right? The truth is that you're a quite, sensitive type but if I'm prepared to take a chance I might just get to know the inner you: witty, adventurous, passionate, loving, loyal, a little bit crazy, a little
Eh-
Well, what's wrong, boy? Cat got your tongue.
Diane.
Ssshh!
Sorry.
Christ, I haven't felt that good since Archie Gemmill scored against Holland in 1978.
Right. You can't sleep here.
What?
Out.
Come on.
No argument. You can sleep on the sofa in the living room, or go home. It's up to you.
Jesus.
I don't see why not.
Because it's illegal.
Holding hands?
No, not holding hands.
In that case you can do it. You were quite happy to do a lot more last night.
Calm down. You're not going to jail.
Easy for you to say.
Can I see you again?
What do you want?
Are you clean?
Yes.
Is that a promise, then?
Yes, as a matter of fact, it is.
Calm down, I'm just asking. Is that hash I can smell?
No.
I wouldn't mind a bit, if it is.
Well, it isn't.
Smells like it.
You're too young.
You're not getting any younger, Mark. The world is changing, music is changing, even drugs are changing. You can't stay in here all day dreaming about heroin and Ziggy Pop.
It's Iggy Pop.
Whatever. I mean, the guy's dead anyway.
Iggy Pop is not dead. He toured last year. Tommy went to see him.
It's so simple. We buy it at four grand, we punt it at twenty to this guy that Sick Boy knows, and he punts it at sixty. Everyone's happy, everyone's in profit. I put up two. I come away with six.
Unless you get caught.
So long as everyone keeps their mouths shut, we'll not be getting caught.
So why have you told me about it?
Well, you're not going to tell anyone, are you, and besides, I thought we could meet up afterwards, maybe go somewhere together.
I've got a boyfriend, Mark.
What? Steady like?
That's right: 'going steady' for four weeks now.
And what age are you? Thirteen? Fourteen?
Sixteen next month.
Happy birthday.
So, what's he like?
I read it in Cosmopolitan.
It's an interesting theory.
Actually it's a nightmare. I've been desperate for a shag, but watching him suffer was just too much fun. You should try it with Tommy.
What, and deny myself the only pleasure I get from him? Did I tell you about my birthday?
What happened?
Tommy knew he had the virus, like, but never knew he'd gone full-blown.
What was it, pneumonia or cancer?
No, toxoplasmosis. Sort of like a stroke.
I bet Lizzy told him where to put it.
Exactly. I'm not wanting a cat, she says. Get to fuck, right. So there's Tommy stuck with this kitten. You can imagine what happened. The thing was neglected, pissing and shitting all over the place. Tommy was lying around fucked out of his eyeballs on smack or downers. He didn't know you could get toxoplasmosis from cat shit.
Tommy, let's put the tape on.
Now?
Yes, I want to watch ourselves while we're screwing.
What do you mean, it's 'gone'? Where has it gone, Tommy?
It'll be here somewhere. I might have returned it by mistake.
Well, Mr. Renton, I see that you attended the Royal Edinburgh College.
Indeed, yes, those halcyon days.
One of Edinburgh's finest schools.
Oh, yes, indeed. I look back on my time there with great fondness and affection. The debating society, the first eleven, the soft know of willow on leather --
I'm an old boy myself, you know?
Oh, really?
Do you recall the school motto?
Of course, the motto, the motto --
Strive, hope, believe and conquer.
No, actually I went to Craignewton but I was worried that you wouldn't have heard of it so I put the Royal Edinburgh College instead, because they're both schools, right, and we're all in this together, and I wanted to put across the general idea rather than the details, yeah? People get all hung up on details, but what's the point? Like which school?
Mr. Murphy, do you mean that you lied on your application?
Only to get my foot in the door. Showing initiative, right?
You were referred here by the Department of Employment. There's no need for you to get you "foot in the door", as you put it.
Thank you, Mr. Murphy. We'll let you know.
Morning, Spud. Sit down and have some breakfast.
I'll put the sheets in the washing machine just now.
No, I'll wash them. I'll take them home and bring them back.
There's no need.
It's no problem.
No problem for me either. Honestly, it's no problem.
I'd really rather take care of it myself.
Are you getting out much?
No.
Following the game at all?
No.
You take the test?
Aye.
Clear?
Aye.
That's nice.
I'm sorry, Tommy.
Have you got any gear on you?
No, I'm clean.
Thanks, Mark.
Good luck, Spud.
Cheers.
Now remember --
Yeah.
If they think you're not trying, you're in trouble. First hint of that, they'll be on to the DSS, 'This cunt's no trying' and your Giro is fucking finished, right?
Right.
But try too hard --
And you might get the fucking job.
Exactly.
Nightmare.
It's a tightrope, Spud, a fucking tightrope.
My problem is that I tend to clam up. I go dumb and I can't answer any questions at all. Nerves on the big occasion, like a footballer.
A little too well, if anything, a little too well, that's my only fear, compadre.
Another dab?
I chose not to choose life: I chose something else. And the reasons? There are no reasons. Who need reasons when you've got heroin?
Goldfinger's better than Dr. No. Both of them are a lot better than Diamonds are Forever a judgement reflected in its relative poor showing at the box office, in which field, of course, Thunderball was a notable success.
People think it's all about misery and desperation and death and all that shite, which is not to be ignored, but what they forget - Spud is shooting up for the pleasure of it. Otherwise we wouldn't do it. After all, we're not fucking stupid. At least, we're not that fucking stupid. Take the best orgasm you ever had, multiply it by a thousand
I would say, in those days, he was a muscular actor, in every sense, with all the presence of someone like Cooper or Lancaster, but combined with a sly wit to make him a formidable romantic lead, closer in that respect to Cary Grant.
You Only Live Twice?
Nineteen-sixty-seven.
Running time?
One hundred and sixteen minutes.
Director?
Lewis Gilbert.
Screenwriter?
Eh - Ian Fleming?
Fuck off! He never wrote any of them.
OK, so who was it, then?
Who wrote it?
But you're looking better, it has to be said. Healthier. Radiant even.
You don't know, do you?
And I wondered if you'd care to go to the park tomorrow.
The park?
Tomorrow afternoon. Usual set-up.
Who wrote it?
Roald Dahl.
It's certainly a phenomenon in all walks of life.
What do you mean?
Well, at one time, you've got it, and then you lose it, and it's gone for ever. All walks of life: George Best, for example, had it and lost it, or David Bowie, or Lou Reed -
Some of his solo stuff's not bad.
No, it's not bad, but it's not great either, is it? And in your heart you kind of know that although it sounds all right, it's actually just shite.
So who else?
Charlie Nicholas, David Niven, Malcolm McLaren, Elvis Presley. -
All I'm trying to do is help you understand that The Name of the Rose is merely a blip on an otherwise uninterrupted downward trajectory.
What about The Untouchables?
I don't rate that at all.
Despite the Academy award?
That means fuck all. The sympathy vote.
Right. So we all get old and then we can't hack it any more. Is that it?
Yeah.
That's your theory?
Yeah, Beautifully fucking illustrated.
Do you see the beast? Have you got it in you sights?
I think Allison had been screaming all day, but it hadn't really registered before. She might have been screaming for a week for all I knew. It's been days since I've heard anyone speak, though surely someone must have said something in all that time, surely to fuck someone must have.
Oh, fuck. Sick Boy reaches out to Allison.
It wasn't my baby. She wasn't my baby. Baby Dawn. She wasn't mine. Spud's? Swanney's? Sick Boy's? I don't know. Maybe Allison knew. Maybe not. I wished I could think of something to say, something sympathetic, something human.
Say something, Mark, say something --
Eughh. Sounds horrible.
It wasn't that bad.
Did he -- you know?
What?
You know.
No, he didn't make me touch it.
Oh no, don't even mention it.
He made me lick it.
God, you're sick.
And I got a stitch stuck between my teeth, jerked my head back and the whole fucking stump fell off.
Cut it out.
When are you going to visit him?
Don't know. Maybe Thursday.
Fuck you. OK, so Tommy's got the virus. Bad news, big deal. The gig goes on, or hadn't you noticed? Swanney fucks his leg up. Well, tough shit, but it could have been worse.
You're all hear.
I know a couple of addicts. Stupid wee lassies. I feed them what they need. A little bit of skag to keep them happy while the punters line up at a fiver a skull. It's easy money for me. Not exactly a fortune, but I'm thinking, 'I should be coining it here.' Less whores, more skag. Swanney's right. Get clean, get into dealing, that's
Fuck you.
I can't believe you did that.
I got a good price for it. Rents, I need the money.
It was my fucking television.
Why?
Well, this guy I've met runs a hotel. Brother. Loads of contacts. Does a nice little sideline in punting British passports to foreigners. Get you a good price.
Why would I want to sell my passport?
What?
There's a mate of swanney's. Mikey Forrester -- you know the guy. He's come into some gear. A lot of gear.
How much?
About four kilos. So he tells me. Got drunk in a pub down by the docks last week, where he met two Russian sailors. They're fucking carrying the stuff. For sale there and then, like. So he wakes up the next morning, realizes what he's done and get very fucking nervous. Wants rid of this. {---------- He's looking for Swanney to punt it, but
So?
So he met me and I offered to take it off his hands at a very reasonable price, with the intention of punting it on myself to a guy I know in London.
What was your price?
Four Grand.
But you don't have the money?
We're two thousand short.
That's tough.
Come on, Mark, every cunt knows you've been saving up down in London.
From time to time, even I have uttered the magic words.
Are you serious?
Yeah. No more. I'm finished with that shite.
Well, it's up to you.
I'm going to get it right this time. Going to get it set up and get off it for good.
Sure, sure. I've heard it before.
The Sick Boy method.
Yeah, well, it surely worked for him.
He's always been lacking in moral fibre.
He knows a lot about Sean Connery.
That's hardly a substitute.
you'll need one more hit.
No, I don't think so.
What's on the menu this evening?
Your favourite dish.
Excellent.
Your usual table, sir?
And would sir care to settle his bill in advance?
Stick it on my tab.
Regret to inform, sir, that your credit limit was reached and breached a long time ago.
No, thank you. I'll proceed directly to the intravenous injection of hard drugs, please.
Great.
And see when I get out of here. I've got plans. Going to get myself straightened out and head off to Thailand, where women really know how to treat a guy. See, out there you can live like a king if you've got white skin and a few crisp tenners in your pocket. No fucking problem.
Sure.
The strategy is this: get clean, get mobile, get into dealing, and this time next year I'll be watching the rising sun with a posse of oriental buttocks parked on my coupon.
Sounds great, Swanney.
Yeah.
You'll have to send us a postcard.
This had better be good.
It will be. It'll make a change for three miserable junkies who don't know what they want to do with themselves since they stopped doing smack.
If I'm giving up a whole day and the price of a ticket, I'm just saying it had better be good. There's plenty of other things I could be doing.
Such as?
There.
It's the great outdoors.
It's really nice, Tommy. Can we go home now?
It's fresh air.
Look, Tommy, we know you're getting a hard time off Lizzy, but there's no need to take it out on us.
How's it going with Gail?
No joy yet.
How long is it?
Six weeks.
Six weeks!
It's a nightmare. She told me she didn't want our relationship to start on a physical basis as that is how it would be principally defined from then on in.
Where did she come up with that?
She read it in Cosmopolitan.
Six weeks and no sex?
Useless motherfucker, that's what she called me. I told her, I'm sorry, but theses things happen. Let's put it behind us.
That's fair enough.
Yes, but then she finds out I've bought a ticket for Iggy Pop the same night.
Went ballistic?
Big time. Absolutely fucking radge. 'It's me or Iggy Pop, time to decide.'
So what's it going to be?
We go for a walk.
What?
A walk.
Well, what are you waiting for?
What do you see as your main strengths?
I love people. All people. Even people that no one else loves, I think they're OK, you know. Like Beggars.
Homeless people?
No, not homeless people. Beggars, Francis Begbie -- one of my mates. I wouldn't say my best mate, I mean, sometimes the boy goes over the score, like one time when we -- me and him -- were having a laugh and all of a sudden he's fucking gubbed me in the face, right --
Mr. Murphy, {leaving your friend aside,} do you see yourself as having any weaknesses?
Qual se tu?
It is I. The journey you undertook to reach me could not have been an easy one.
It was not. The Barrier stood between us - but we breached it.
Magnificent. You are the first to find me.
We sought only your infinite wisdom.
And how did you breach the Barrier?
With a starship!
This starship, could it carry my wisdom beyond the Barrier?
It could. Yes.
Then I shall make use of this starship.
He has his doubts...
Why? Why have you done this to my friend?
No, no, it's not possible.
Bring me the ship or I will destroy you!
The ship....
I couldn't help but notice you pain.
My pain?
Bad news, gentlemen. Shore leave's been cancelled.
Rescued at last.
Don't tell them you're lost. You'll never live it down.
My visual says sunny skies and seventy degrees.
Sulu! Look! The sun's come out! It's a miracle!
Admit it. We're lost.
Um... yes. We've been caught in a blizzard!
Sulu, what are you doing?
Plotting our new course.
New course? You have no authority. What's going on here?
Following new course. Warp seven.
In firing position. Torpedo armed.
Shuttle en route.
Position, Bird of Prey?
Mr. Chekov, I've lost the Bird of Prey. She must have cloaked.
Raise shields.
But the shuttle-
What's Emergency Landing Plan B?
This is the Starship Enterprise.
A Federation starship.
This is Captain Pavel Chekov speaking. You are in violation of Neutral Zone Treaty. I advise you to release your hostages at once or suffer the consequences.
You are a master of understatement. They are likely to destroy the planet.
Then it's fortunate that I have you and your starship to protect me. In the meantime, Captain Chekov, I instruct you and your First Officer to beam down to my coordinates.
What's going on?
I instruct you to surrender. You are under attack by Federation forces.
Can we have it quiet?
Enterprise, this is Starfleet Operations. Come in.
Bob?
You caught me on my way to the shower.
I apologize for canceling shore leave, but look, we have a dangerous situation out on Nimbus III.
On "The Planet Of Galactic Peace?"
The Klingon, the Romulan, the Federation consuls. Now I know Enterprise is not exactly up to specs...
With all due respect, the Enterprise is a disaster. There must be other ships in the quadrant.
Other ships, yes. But no experienced commanders. Captain, I need Jim Kirk.
Oh, please.
Your orders are to proceed to Nimbus III, assess the situation and avoid a confrontation if possible. Above all, however, get those hostages back safely.
Have the Klingons responded?
No, but you can bet they will.
Besides, I can't believe you'd kill me for a field of empty holes.
Your pain runs deep.
What do you know of my pain?
Where did you get this power?
The power was within you.
I feel as if a weight has been lifted from my heart. How can I repay you for this miracle?
Join my quest.
What is it you seek?
What you seek. What all men have sought since time began - ultimate knowledge. But to find it we'll need a starship.
A starship? There are no starships on Nimbus III.
Perhaps I have a way to bring one here.
But how?
You told me you could have the ship operational in two weeks. I gave you three. What Happened?
I think you gave me too much time, Captain.
Very well, Mr. Scott. Carry on.
Don't you worry, Captain. We'll beat those Klingon devils even if I have to get out and push.
Scotty here, Captain. Transporter is still inoperative. Even if we could lock onto the hostages, we couldn't beam them up.
Captain, we can't trust anyone now.
Mr. Scott, get the transporter working. If we contact a rescue ship we'll need it. Which way to the turbo shaft?
Head down that tunnel to the hydro vent and turn right. Then left at the blowscreen. You can't miss it.
She's got partial power, sir. I might be able to take two of you.
Mr. Scott apologizes for having to send the shuttlecraft. The transporter beam is non-operational. Captain, we've received important orders from Starlet Command.
Why didn't you beep my communicator?
Captain, Starfleet transmission on line.
Captain, we're receiving the hostage information you requested.
Standard orbit, Mr. Sulu.
Captain, we're receiving transmission from Paradise City. They're demanding to know our intentions.
Respond with static. Let them think we're having difficulty. Which wouldn't be far from the truth.
Paradise City, can you boost your power? We're barely receiving transmission.
Bird of Prey bearing one zero five mark two.
Spock - What are you doing in this neck of the woods?
I regret to inform you that the record for free-climbing El Captain is in no danger of being broken.
I'm not trying to break any records. I'm doing this because I enjoy it. Not to mention the most important reason for climbing a mountain...
And that is?
Because it's there.
Ah, Captain?
MM.?
On the contrary. Gravity is foremost on my mind. Look, I'm trying to make an ascent here. Why don't you go pester Dr McCoy for a while?
Concentration is vital. You must be one with the rock.
Oh, God
Oh, no. It isn't that. I knew I wouldn't die because the two of you were with me.
I don't understand.
What are you doing?
Oh. I believe we are required to engage in a ritual known as the singalong.
"Pack Up Your Troubles."
"Row, row, row your boat..." I love "Row..." Do - do you know "Row, Row, Row, Row, Row Your Boat?"
That song did not come up in my research, Captain.
Come on, Spock. Why didn't you jump in?
Captain?
Spock, we're on leave. You can call me Jim.
Jim.
Yes, Spock?
Life is not a dream.
Go to sleep, Spock.
Yes, Captain.
Goodnight, Spock.
I could use a shower.
Not General Korrd.
The same. He's apparently fallen out of favor with the Klingon High Command.
What is it? You look like you've seen a ghost.
Spock, what is it? Do you know this Vulcan?
I cannot be certain.
But he does seem familiar?
I do not often think of the past.
Who is it he reminds you of?
There was a young student, exceptionally gifted, possessing of great intelligence. It was assumed that one day he would take his place amongst the great scholars of Vulcan. But he was a revolutionary.
What do you mean?
He rejected his logical upbringing and embraced the animal passions of our ancestors.
Why?
When he encouraged others to follow him, he was banished from Vulcan, never to return.
Klingon vessel now entering quadrant. Bird of Prey. Estimating 1.9 hours until her weapons come to bear.
Their equipment is primitive but effective. I recommend we land at Coordinate 8563.
That puts us pretty far away from Paradise City.
To land any closer would risk detection.
At footspeed I estimate the journey to Paradise City at 1.2 hours.
Spock.
Yes, Captain?
Be one with the horse.
Exactly 15.5 seconds.
You must allow us to act.
Damnit, Spock. God damnit!
Captain, what have I done -
What you have done is betray every man on this ship.
Worse. I have betrayed you. I do not expect you to forgive me.
Forgive you? I ought to knock you on your goddamn ass!
You stay out of this! Why, Spock? Why? I.. All you had to do was pull the trigger.
If I had pulled the trigger, Sybok would be dead.
I ordered you to defend this ship.
You ordered me to kill my brother.
Look, the man may be a fellow Vulcan, but that doesn't...
You mean he's your brother brother? You made that up!
I did not.
You did too. Sybok couldn't possibly be your brother because I happen to know for a fact that you don't have a brother.
Technically, you are correct. I do not have a brother.
There, you see? See?
I have a half brother.
Exactly. That is correct. Sybok's mother was a Vulcan princess. Upon her death, Sybok and I were raised as brothers.
Why didn't you tell me this before?
I was not disposed to discuss... matters of a personal nature. For that, I'm sorry.
There's got to be a way out of this place.
This is a new brig, Captain. It is escape-proof.
How do you know?
The designers tested it using the most intelligent and resourceful person they could find. He failed to escape.
This, er, person... didn't by any chance have pointed ears and an unerring capacity for getting his shipmates into trouble, did he?
Is it possible?
Is what possible?
There Sha Ka Ree is fabled to exist.
But the center of the galaxy can't be reached. No ship has ever gone into the Great Barrier. No probe has ever returned.
Sybok possessed the keenest intellect I have ever known.
Spock! My only concern is getting the ship back. When that's done and Sybok is in here then you can debate Sha Ka Ree until you're green in the face. Until then, you're either with me or you're not.
I am here, Captain.
You're right. I'm a little out of practice. Uh....that's an "s."
A "t."
New word. "b".. "a"... um...
There is an emergency sending apparatus in the forward observation room.
I believe I have found a faster way.
Hmmm?
It would appear we are too heavy.
Spock... the booster rockets.
If I activate them now, Captain, we will be propelled upward at an unbelievable rate.
Spock.
The emergency channel, open.
...mark two.
Spock... don't.
What is this?
Spock?
Spock, I thought I was going to die.
Maybe he's not out there, Bones. Maybe he's right here... in the human heart Spock?
I was thinking of Sybok. I've lost a brother.
I must have your starship.
Who are you?
James T. Kirk, Captain of the Enterprise.
No! No reply. Remain on course.
What are you doing?
We must change our course at once.
I trust your message was received?
You can't expect us to stand by while you take the ship into the Great Barrier.
What you fear is the unknown. The people of your planet once believed their world was flat. Columbus proved it was round. They said the sound barrier could never be broken. It was broken. They said warp speed could not be achieved. The Great Barrier is the ultimate expression of this universal fear. It's an extension of personal fear. Captain Kirk, I so much
Sha Ka Ree. "The Scource." "Heaven." "Eden." call it "Qui'Tu." To the Romulans, it's "Vorta Vor." The Andorian word is.. unpronounceable. Still, every culture shares he common dream of a place from which creation sprang. For us, that place will soon be a reality.
The only realty I see is that I'm a prisoner on my own ship. What is this power you have to control the minds of my crew?
Spock... What have you done to my friends?
No... I didn't.
Now learn something about yourself.
Wait! You know we'll never make it through the Great Barrier.
But if we do, will that convince you that my vision was true?
Your vision?
Given to me by God. He waits for us on the other side.
You are mad!
About the ship...
The ship needs its Captain.
No special conditions?
No conditions.
What makes you think I won't turn us around?
What have I done?
Kirk to Enterprise. Listen carefully...











Borgus Frat.
"Let's see what she's got," said the Captain. And then we found out, didn't we?
I know you'll whip her into shape, Scotty. You always do.
Uhura, I thought you were on leave.
And I thought we were supposed to be going together.
Oh, I cannot leave her now when she needs me the most.
They can't be serious. The ship's in pieces and we've less than a skeleton aboard.
Easy, easy, easy, Scotty. Easy. You're back with us.
Uhura, I had the strangest dream. I dreamt that a madman had taken over the Enterprise.
Scotty, dear, he' not a madman.
He's not?
No, no, no. Scotty - Scotty... There's so much I want to tell you.
Spock, you've developed a sense of humor after all.
It was not my intention to amuse you. These are serious charges. However, if you surrender now-
I am a Starfleet Officer.
Sybok, you must surrender.
Put him in the brig with Captain Kirk. Spock, you will accompany me to the bridge?
No. I will not.
Each man's pain is unique.
I hide no pain.
I know you better than that.
Spock?
I cannot go with you.
Why not?
I belong here.
I don't understand...
Sybok - this is not the God of Sha Ka Ree - or any other God!
Sybok.
This is my doing. This is my arrogance... my vanity...
Sybok, we must find a way...
You did break in.
Tried to. Can't quite make the connection with that sucker, though. If I had a direct terminal ...
Are you embezzling?
"Embezzling" is such an ugly word, Mister Bailey... No, actually I'm trying to get a legal brief together.
I don't get it.
Sherman, set the Wayback Machine for...oh, 1973. Kevin Flynn is one of the brightest young software engineers at ICOM. He's so bright that he starts going in there at night, and sets up a private memory file, and begins writing a program for a video game he is inventing, called... ...Space Paranoids.
You invented Space Paranoids?
Yepper. And Vice Squad, and Meltdown... whole slew of 'em. I was this close to starting my own little enterprise. But: enter Ed Dillinger. Another software engineer -- not so young, not so bright, but very, very sneaky. One night, our boy Flynn goes to his terminal, tries to read up his file, and ... nothing. A big blank. We now take you to
Senior exec.
Oh my. Meanwhile, kids are putting eight million quarters a week in Space Paranoids machines and I'm not seeing one dime.
I still don't get why you're trying to break into the system.
Dillinger?
Not if my Tron program was running. That would seal the system off. If your file's in there...
Hi, Alan.
My dinner.
I was wondering where you got that glow of good health.
Want one?
Flynn! I made it. I worked out some new codes for Tron, put 'em on a disk, and -- it's running.
Your old files -- ?
And Dillinger's instructions to divert them -- it's all there - look, even his home phone number, when he logged on.
Shouldn't you wait till your lawsuit's settled?
How's it going upstairs?
Did you say Group 7 access?
Yeah...pain in the neck, you know, I was all set
Did he say why?
Something about tampering. Some body's prob'ly trying to siphon the R&D budget into his checking account, I don't know. Why are you so interested?
Flynn had Group 7 access.
Flynn had access to you, too. I'm not interested in talking about him.
Oh, I wish you'd forget about that. It was all so long ago. I've totally gotten over it.
Okay, okay...
I want to go to his place.
You call that getting over it?
What for?
To warn him.
Of what?
For what?
For being on to Dillinger.
Flynn!
I don't think I'm cleared for this.
Beautiful!
Hello, Alan.
Not disintegrating, Alan -- digitizing. While the laser is dismantling the molecular structure of the object, the computer maps out a holographic model of it. The molecules themselves are suspended in the laser beam. Then the computer reads the model back out, the molecules go back into place, and... voila.
Great. Can it send me to Hawaii?
Ever since he got that Master Control Program set up, system's got more bugs than a bait store.
Well, you have to expect some static. Computers are just machines after all, they can't think...
They'll start to soon enough.
Come on in...
Alan. Alan Bailey.
Well, I don't know...I just tried to run this program I've been working on, and I was denied access all of a sudden. I thought maybe I'd been laid off and nobody told me.
oh, you have Group 7 access, don't you?
Yeah...?
We have to close that down, just briefly. Security reasons. Someone with that access has been tampering.
I hope you don't think it's me. I don't even balance my checkbook on downtime. I've got a Honeywell at home for that.
No, no, I'm sure, but -- you understand. It should only be a couple of days. What's the thing you're working on?
It's called Tron. It's a security program itself, actually. Monitors all the contacts between our system and other systems... If it finds anything going on that's not scheduled, it shuts it down. I sent you a memo on it.
Mmm. Part of the Master Control Program?
No, it'll run independently. It can watchdog the MCP as well.
Ah. Sounds good. Well, we should have you running again in a couple of days, I hope.
What do you mean, "'yes"?
That all you can say?
No, nyet, negatory, not on your tintype, no way.
Oh. Anything else?
Oui, da, yessiree, sure 'nuff, you betcha.
only yes and no... You're a bit.
For sure...
where's your program? Won't it miss you?
I'm your program?
Right on the money!
Way to go! We're haulin'!
This honey doesn't handle so good in town...
This town's full o' live ones.
You said it.
Yes!
No problem, Master-C. If you've seen one Consumer Electronics Show... What's up?
It's our friend the boy detective. He's nosing around again.
Flynn?
Yes. It felt like Flynn.
He's still looking for that old file... can't you just appropriate it?
I would if I could find it. it's stashed somewhere off in the system ... out of my range. Meanwhile...
Meanwhile, he might find it.
I'm afraid so. I spotted him this time and kicked him out, but he's getting trickier all the time.
I think we'd better shut off all access till we can find that file. Just to be safe.
There's a 68.71 percent chance you're right.
Cute.
Ed, I am so very disappointed in you.
I'm sorry -
I can't afford to have an independent program monitoring me. Do you have any idea how many outside systems I've gone into? How many programs I've appropriated?
It's my fault. I programmed you to want so much...
And I was planning to hit the Pentagon next week...
The Pentagon?
It shouldn't be any harder than General Motors was. But now...this is what I get for using humans.
Now, wait a minute -- I wrote you.
I've gotten 2,415 times smarter since then.
What do you want with the Pentagon?
The same thing I want with the Kremlin. I'm bored with corporations. With the information I can access, I can run things 900 to 1200 times better than any human.
If you think -
You wouldn't want me to dig up Flynn's file and read it up on a VDT at the New York Times, would you?
You wouldn't dare.
Ed, all I'm saying is - if our own people can't get access to their programs ... you know how frustrating it is, when you're working on a piece of research -
Walter, I sympathize, but I have data coming out of the Master Control Program saying there is something screwy --
That MCP, you know, that's half the problem right --
The MCP is the most efficient way of handling what we do. I can't sit and worry about every little user request that --
User requests are what computers are for.
Oh, I know all that. Sometimes I wish I was back in that garage...
That was uncalled-for.
I'm sorry, Walt. So much pressure lately... you feel like going for a drink?
Yes?
I... have come to communicate with my User.
Well I want to communicate --
Dumont... my User has information that could -- could make this a free system again.
Hah.
Really. You'd have programs lined up around the block to use this place -- and no MCP looking over your shoulder.
Who is your User, program?
Alan-One. He calls me... may I pass?
Dumont!
No... Tron ... must... destroy MCP... first...
Dumont! Where's Yori? Where's Flynn?
Alan!
Where did you hear that name?
Well, isn't it -- ?
The name of my User, yeah. But how... ?
What, just the three of us?
What's that?
How about over there...that empty memory?
Flynn!!
Greetings, program...
You're alive!
Flynn... Where's Ram?
No big deal. I ought to know my way around that Light Cycles routine... I mean, I did write the program for it.
Wrote the...?
But -- if you're a User -- then everything you've done has been part of a plan ...
You wish. Man, I haven't had a second to think since I got down here. I mean in here. Out here. Whatever.
Then...
Look, you guys know how it is. You just keep doin' what it looks like you're supposed to, even if it seems crazy, and you hope to hell your User knows what's goin' on.
Well -- that's how it is for programs, yes, but --
I hate to disappoint you, pal, most-the time, that's how it is for Users, too.
We're on our way. Alan-One gave me the coding we need to go up against Master
What about our friend - Sark?
Probably decided not to pursue us, The Sea of Simulation is tricky.. lot of illusions...rough navigating. Programs have a way of just... disappearing here.
Not us, I hope.
Did we make it?
Hey... you guys OK?
How about you?
A User -- in our world?
Boy the view from up here... you know the territory?
A little ... Over there, the Mountains of Data... and I think that's the Silicon Valley...
The MCP blasted it... There are very few domains left with any power at all.
There's another beam!
How did you do that, Flynn?
Elementary physics... a beam of energy can always be diverted... ooh, my head Are we there yet, Mommy?
Flynn, we've got to help him!
Yori, steer us over the beam, right next to it.
Why? What are you going to do?
But... won't you be de-rezzed?
Flynn... you can't... I
You'll be having plenty of chances to get hurt, don't worry about that.
Look...just so I can tell my friends what this dream was about, okay? Where am I?
You're a..."guest" of the Master Control Program. They're going to make you play video games.
Hey, Ram ... what were you ... you know, before?
Oh, I was an actuarial program... worked at a big insurance company. It really gives you a great feeling, helping folks plan for their future needs -- and of course, if you look at the payments as an annuity, over the years, the cost is really
Yeah, yeah -- that's great.
How 'bout yourself?
Oh, uh...I don't remember too much...
Flynn! Look, Tron, he survived!
He was disoriented in transport, Tron.
Watch it!
It's all circuits... Must be an input/output component...
The tower, yes -- Flynn, have you remembered anything else about yourself -- like what sector you're from?
Well...my home "sector" was called Paramus ...
PARAMUS... wonder what those initials stand for ... ...probably Program Assist Routine -- well, it sounds like a lovely place.
Feel what? You okay?
What's goin' on?
We're inside a Recognizer... You are crazy -- stealing a Recognizer --
Damn! Never fails... minute the warranty runs out...
Hey... !
Hey! Good to see you guys! Nothing classes up the place like a cleancut young couple.
We have to talk.
So...how's the world of serious science?
Have you been sneaking into the ICOM system?
You can see why all his friends are fourteen years old.
I'm afraid it's a little late for that. Dillinger's shut off Group 7 access. He must know what you're up to.
Don't even say that. You've got to find that file before he does..
Okay ... Flynn, I'm gonna put you at my terminal, down in the laser lab. We'll be up in Alan's office.
Swell...I'll log us both on, and you can get your Tron thing running...
you have any idea how much I can sue these jokers for?
Well, just don't forget your old friends when you're rich and famous.
Hey, you know anybody who wants to get hold of some video games... cheap?
Thank. you, Master Control.
We might be capturing some military programs soon... that interest you?
Sure, I'd love to go up against some of these guys ... be a nice break from these accounting creampuffs you keep sending me. Which branch of the service?
Yes, MCP.
I've got a little challenge for you, Sark -- a new recruit. He's a tough case, but I want him treated in the usual manner. Train him for the games... let him hope for a while... and blow him away.
You've got it. I've been hopin' you'd send me somebody with a little moxie ... what kind of program is he?
A User?
Well, I -- it's just -- I don't know, a User, I mean... Users wrote us. A User even wrote you...
Now get this straight, pal -- no one User wrote me. I'm worth a couple million of their man-years! I'm bigger than all those little wimps put together! Humans they can't even keen their social order in one piece
But-what if I can't...?
Wait...I need that...
Yes...acknowledge, Master Control...
I hope you've enjoyed being a command program, Sark. I wonder how you'll like working in a pocket calculator... maybe one of those watches that plays "Happy Birthday" to its User once a year.
Now, sir... We did take care of that User you sent us --
Yes, and now you've got two renegade programs running all the hell over the system in a stolen simulation.
We'll get them, sir... These things take time.
New guy...
Another free program off line. What's his User s'posed to do -- ?
The Users...you really think they're still there?
What do you think?
You think we can make it there?
Do you know what he's talking about?
Yori... hey...
I can't believe how bad it's gotten around here since the MCP started taking over... all the good functions have shut down... everybody looks so dead... I'm afraid to even go out during down-time...
That's all going to change, Yori...
How?
My quarters.
Why is everything...like this?
You've grown, big program.
Yes...it can take us across the Sea of Simulation... all the way out of the Game Grid...to the MCP.
This is Flynn... the one who busted me out.
What is it?
Power surge... the transmission beam's too strong!
We have to get off this beam!
Nice...
It's something Users do.
I mean, it's not like he's saving the world or anything. He's a sales rep for Chrissakes. Whenever I can't get to sleep I ask him to tell me about his day. Six seconds and I'm out. But he acts like he's curing cancer or something.
So I guess you didn't get away * for the weekend after all? *
Are you kidding? Harry had to go out of town.
I'm shocked.
You bitch.
Girlfriend, you got a man. You * just have to take control . . . set up the right mood. *
Harry only has two moods: busy... * and asleep.
Helen! It's your mystery man.
Can you cover me for an hour?
Just an hour? You should tell this stud to take more time.
Where are you going?
Out. If Dad doesn't care enough about us to be here on his birthday, then why should I care? I'm going to a movie.
No you're not. You're going to stay here until your father gets home and have cake!
That's not true, honey--
Dinner's in the warmer. Tell your father I may be late.
Where are you going?
I'm done.
Where are you off to young lady?
Dana, Mr. Hardy called. Why weren't you in class today?
He lies! I was there! I was in the nurse's office, cause I had a headache.
You seem fine now.
Great! You're going to believe that fat dweeb Mr. Hardy over your own daughter.
Dana, are you listening to me?
Yeah, Dad.
You know you can always talk to me. Right? Whatever is going on in your life, your mom and I'll understand.
Okay, Dad.
You'd tell me if there was something wrong, wouldn't you, pumpkin?
How was school today?
There are going to be some changes Dana. You're going to start following some rules. And I'm going to be there to see that you do.
Yeah, right.
You're going to stay in school. Do you understand?
Dad, how come you know the words?
Honey that song came out in 1968, when I was exactly your age.
I seem to remember something about a history project that's due tomorrow.
And this is a little above market- * rate for the horizontal bop, even * for a total biscuit like her.
Alright, I want a complete workup on her. Do we know where she is?
Uh huh. Right here in river city.
You're kidding.
And the second you left there, we started getting calls to the * ghost numbers. They were checking out the Renquist front.
Immediate roll. Acquire subject at K Street and Key Bridge. * Vehicle is red-and-white * convertible. You have six minutes.
Faisil. You're new on Harry's team, aren't you?
Yes.
So what makes you think that the slack I cut him in any way translates to you?!
They call him "The Sand Spider". *
Why?
Probably because it sounds scary. *
Switching to sub-vocal. Gib, you copy?
Harry! Where are you!
Harry? HARRY?!
What's this for?
For Dana, schmuck. Bring your kid something. You know. The dad thing.
What a team. See you at eight.
Thanks dear.
Son of a bitch!
Kids. Ten seconds of joy. Thirty years of misery.
She knows not to steal. I've taught her better than that.
See, kids now are ten years ahead * of where we were at the same age. You probably think she's still a virgin--
Don't be ridiculous. She's only -- how old is she?
Fourteen, Harry.
Uh huh. And her little hormones are going like a fire alarm. I * say even money that physicist on * the bike is boinkin' her. *
Okay. Okay. De-nail ain't just a river in Egypt. She's probably stealing the money to pay for an abortion.
Twenty here, fifty there... I figured my wife's boyfriend was taking it.
I thought you moved out.
Harry Tasker. One zero zero two four.
You better watch it. She might file on you for sexual harassment.
It doesn't mean anything. She buys antiquities for Khaled.
It's all set up... ghost phones and fax, all the usual stuff. You have a suite at the Marquis Hotel under Renquist. Okay, reality check. Go.
She's importing stuff from all over the mid-east.
What? It's on the way. She says she's got something for me.
Station wagon?
Helen's going to be pissed.
What's the plan?
There's another guy, still in the car.
Copy that.
Hey, did that guy Harry chased last night call in to give himself up yet? Cause apparently that's the only way we're going to catch the son of a bitch --
Look at the way the little punk is driving. He's all over the place. Look-- he hasn't signalled once.
So, you wanna play huh? You little--
Ha! The little prick ditched you! That is so goddamn funny.
Son of a bitch!
Abu Kaleem Malik.
Look, uh... I've got to talk to Helen about this thing with Dana. I'm just going to run in and see if she can get away for lunch.
You want me to just hang-- ?
Just hang a minute.
He-- Helen. Helen-- it's Helen. It's Helen, Gib.
Something to do with Helen, is what I'm getting.
Congratulations. Welcome to the club.
It can't be. Not Helen.
Nobody believes it can happen to them.
It can't be.
Same thing happened to me with wife two. I had no idea until I came home and the house was empty. I mean empty. She even took the ice-cube trays from the fridge. What kind of person would think of that?
I still don't believe it.
Is this national security stuff boring you?
Put a tap on her phone.
What're you talking about? We have that.
Yeah, and we do it twenty times a day. Don't give me that crap. Just put on the taps. Now.
Guy's a spook!
Yeah, but for who? *
Give me the page.
What are you talking about?
It skips from page nine to eleven. Where's page ten?
Aw, it's gotta be a typo--
She's still at my house. *
Goddamnit, Harry. This is our butts. So your life is in the toilet. So your wife is banging a used car salesman. Sure it's humiliating. But be a man here--
You tell on me, I tell on you.
Whatya talking? I'm clean as a preacher's sheets, babe. Clean as a --
What about that time you trashed a six-week operation because you were busy getting a blow-job?
She's lying.
She could be telling the truth.
Now what?
There is only one solution to your problem, Mrs. Tasker. You must work for us.
Oh shit. Harry... what're you doing?
We're dead, right? So... where'd you put the transmitter?
You've reached a new low with this one. I can't believe you're crazy enough to use the room at the Marquis.
I thought this look like your work.
Let's go. I'll brief you in the air.
--you tell the son of bitch this is Bright Boy Alert. Repeat, a Bright Boy Alert. And I need a patch of the White House ASAP. That's right--
I can get 3 Marine Corps Harriers here in about 12 minutes. They're on maneuvers out of Boca Chica.
... well get the Highway Patrol to go through the streets and tell everybody on their damn loudspeakers. Just the basics... get away from windows, don't look at it... yeah--
Any minute now.
I'd like to remind you that it has been ten years since you were actually in one of these.
He's got it.
I should have gone to the police, I suppose.
But you didn't. Why not?
Is this a common thing for you? Cheating?
No! Never!
So, it was your first time.
My husband is a good man.
Look, if you ask me everything twice, this is going to take a really long time. And I have to get home to my family.
Janice, how many years have you been buzzing us in?
Ten, Mr. Gibson.
And you still reach for your piece every time.
Yes sir.
God! You have no idea how much that turns me on. I've never had the courage to say this before but... I love you, Janice.
This is Persian, if I'm not mistaken.
Very good. It's sixth century B.C. Do you like the period?
Call me, if you'd like to see some of my other pieces.
Well, what's the point of waiting?
So your clients want something for the lobby of their new corporate headquarters?
Let's see... that you can read ancient Sanskrit without having to sound out the words. And that other dealers and archeologists don't like you much.
Do you like my tomb? The museum * financing fell out, so I thought * your clients might be interested.
It's certainly... dramatic.
Especially in this light. This is the only light they had then, * so I like to study it this way. I love this place. I love all ruins.
I've always been a collector at heart. When I see something I want, I have to have it.
Yes.
Yes what?
Hello, Harry.
This is Samir. See if you can guess his specialty.
Oral hygiene?
You think I care about their * cause? Or yours? Not at all. * See, America is on top now . . * . but so was Rome, once. All * civilizations crumble. One nation succeeding over another. What does it mean in the long run? The only important thing is to live well. And... living * well takes money. *
Did you tell her about us, Harry?
There is no us, you psychotic bitch.
Hi, honey. How was the flight?
Fine, honey. Stay asleep.
I'm late.
How'd it go at the trade show? You make all the other salesmen jealous?
That's fabulous Harry.
Uh huh. Okay.
It's not okay. It's extortion.
What did you tell him?
I slept with him and he knocked off a hundred bucks.
I need you to talk to Dana. The vice principle called and she cut class again this afternoon.
Hi honey. What's going on? *
Sorry to bother you in a meeting, but you have to promise me that * you'll be home at eight. I don't * want Dana and I sitting here by ourselves like we were last year. You promise?
Look, I know you're upset. I'm really sorry, honey. I raced home as quick--
I'm sorry. Thank you for the party.
Come on to bed, you don't have to brush your teeth.
I'll just be a second. So what happened tonight at the office?
It's the big client in Japan, and it's the middle of the morning there and their whole system is crashed... this guy's having a meltdown--
What'd you do, honey?
...and I'm troubleshooting it with them over the phone... talking to a translator, right, who's getting half of it wrong... it was unbelievable... really wild.
It sounds wild. So now you're a big hero, right? For fixing their system.
Uh huh.
I was in the area, and I thought you might like to have lunch.
They must've just missed me.
They said you had to run out.
So, a little excitement in an otherwise dull day. Did is work out okay?
I thought we might have lunch tomorrow.
How long have you been a member of his faction?
What did happen?
Why did you continue to see him?
He needed my help.
Not because you were attracted to him?
No.
You weren't attracted to him at all?
Tell me about your husband, Mrs Tasker.
Harry? What can I say about Harry? He's a sales rep for a computer company.
Would you say he was boring, then?
That's none of your goddamn business! What kind of questions are these?
Let me handle this part. Do you mind? Why did you go to Carlos' hideout?
He wanted me to go with him on a mission, to pose as him wife.
And you agreed?
Yes.
I don't know. I guess I needed something...
What did you need?
This Simon. Did you sleep with him?
Let me out of her! Right now!
What?
Do you still love your husband?
Yes.
Louder please.
Oh, gee thanks. Mmmm, let me see--
Yes or no.
What do you think? Of course yes! What's involved?
You will be contacted with the assignment.
My husband can't know about this.
No one must know! Especially him. You must appear to live your life normally, conveying nothing. The security of this nation depends on it. Can you do that?
I think so.
Think carefully. You will be lying to the man you love. The person who trusts you the most.
I can do it!
The code name of your contact will be Boris. Your code name will be--
Natasha?
So last night was pretty exciting, huh?
Allison is sick in bed. I have to go over there, honey.
Now slide the nylons off one by one.
He's got nothing to do with this. It's me you want, right?
Let the hooker go. She's not important.
What were you doing there?
Harry, what's the matter with you? Tell them the truth. We're married, we have a daughter--
I don't know what this crazy bitch is on. You should just cut her loose, so we can get down to business.
I'm sorry, honey.
What did he give you?
Sodium amytal, maybe some other truth agent.
It makes you tell the truth?
Yes.
Is it working yet?
Ask me a question I would normally lie to.
Are we going to die?
17 years.
My God. Have you had to... have sex with other women in the line of duty?
I don't take those assignments.
What about Juno?
She's really a fox, isn't she?
Did you pork her Harry?
No. But I wanted to.
Are you a total lying, scumsucking pig Harry?
What is it?
God, you have great legs.
Tell me something before this stuff wears off and you start lying again.
What?
Do you still love me?
Yes.
As much as you used to?
If we're on an island, why are they using trucks?
What are you going to do?
Oh shit.
... you should have seen your father, standing there all covered with spaghetti sauce. He looked like such a dope.
Not yet. But we'll find him.
What're we talking about here? Pussy, right?
Let's face it, Harry, the Vette gets 'em wet. But it's not enough. If you want to really close escrow, you gotta have an angle.
And you've got one.
It's killer. Look at me-- I'm not that much to look at. No really. I can be honest. But I got 'em lining up, and not just skanks, either. Some are.
So what's your angle?
Sorry. Trade secret.
Okay, just ask yourself. What do women really want? You take these bored housewives, married to the same guy for years. Stuck in a rut. They need some release. The promise of adventure. A hint of danger. I create that for them.
So you're basically lying your ass off the whole time? I couldn't do it.
Well, think of it as playing a role. It's fantasy. You have to work on their dreams. Get them out of their daily suburban grind for a few hours.
Isn't that hard to keep up, in the long run?
Doesn't matter. I like change. You know, constant turnover. As soon as I close the deal, it's one of two more times, then adios.
Use 'em and lose 'em.
Exactly. The trick is, you gotta pick your target. They have to be nice little housewife types. School-teachers. But, I'm telling you, you get their pilot lit, these babes, they can suck- start a leaf-blower.
What about the husbands?
Dickless. If they took care of * business, I'd be out of business, know what I mean?
You working on someone right now?
What does she do?
But with you, she gets to be hot, right?
Sooooo... she's pretty good in bed, then?
See. You and this car were meant for each other. Why fight it? Sure, I have a couple other buyers lined up, but I like your style. Whattya say? Should we start on the paperwork?
Yeeaoowww!!
You son of a bitch. Did you really think you could elude us forever, Carlos?
Beat it.
I said SIT DOWN. Who do you work for?
Kettleman, Barnes and McGrath. I'm a legal secretary.
Of course. Mrs. Tasker. And what were you going with the international terrorist, Carlos the Jackal? Taking dictation?
What?
Get going!
Boris and Doris?
Who's your little friend?
I'm Helen Tasker. Harry's my husband. And you are?
Look, Harry's not part of this. He's just a sales rep.
No, my dear, he is a federal agent. He killed two of my colleagues the other night.
What's going on, Harry?
Now just keep your knees together, and you'll be fine.
Something you obviously have a hard time doing!
Like one?
Hello?
Helen? It's Simon. Is it safe to talk?
Yes. I suppose so. Where?
Are you sure you weren't followed?
I kept looking back, like you taught me. I didn't see anyone.
Okay. It's just, things are a bit hot for me right now. If I get a signal... I may have to leave suddenly.
I understand.
Where were you? On a... uh, * mission?
Ssshhh! We say Op. Covert * operation. And this one got a little rough.
Worse than Cairo? *
Did you read the papers yesterday?
Yes.
That was you?!
Tell me what happened?
I'm sorry, I can't.
You can trust me completely.
I know. But it would compromise your safety too much to know certain things.
Right, of course. I was worried when I didn't hear from you that night.
Were they trying to kill you? *
Three of them. Hardly worth * talking about. Two won't bother * me again.
And you chased one?
What is it you want me to do?
Not here. I'll call you and we'll rendezvous again. We have to leave separately, so we aren't seen together. For your safety.
You'll call me then?
What's happened?
To our assignment.
What is it you need me to do?
Helen, I want you to be my wife.
I'm married!
Just for the operation in Paris. I need to be married. They'll be looking for a man traveling alone.
We're going to Paris?
Helen, there's a double agent in my outfit... I don't know who. There's no one I can trust. Except you. Can you get away? Just for two days.
I don't know. I have to think...
You see what I mean? That reaction would give us away in a second. Try to relax.
It's just that... it's been sixteen years since anyone but Harry did that, I--
Thank you. You saved my life. What's your name?
Helen.
You can call me Simon. You're very brave to do this... You opened it.
It's a good thing you pay me well.
Do you realize that there are surveillance teams watching this place right now? Your phones are almost certainly tapped. And you are busy laughing and flirting like a whore with this Renquist, who may be a--
What do you want me to do?
Find out who this Renquist it.
How?
Who is this woman?
His wife.
Hi, Dick. I'm Alabama Worley.
Hello, Alabama.
He said don't go nowhere. We'll be there some time tomorrow.
Did you get the letter?
What letter?
Gotten your mail yet?
Yeah, my room-mate leaves it on the TV.
Not yet.
Let me speak to Clarence.
You're gonna be on "T.J. Hooker"?
That was so good I am gonna have another.
Holy Mary, Mother of God.
You got that playing basketball?
I'm pretty hungry. When I went to the store I was gonna get some Ding-Dongs.
This should cover it, Auggie-Doggie.
The forager's back.
Thank God. I could eat a horse if you slap enough catsup on it.
I didn't get any chicken.
How come?
Bye, Daddy! Hope to see you again real soon.
What kind of daughterly smackeroo was that?
Tell him we gotta go.
Tell him not to eat anything. We're gonna scarf when we get there.
The letter I sent.
Has he looked through it yet?
Tell him to look through it.
No time. Gotta go. Just tell him to read the letter, the letter explains all. Tell him I love him. And tell him, as of tomorrow, all his money problems are over.
Bye-bye.
... when my mom went into labor, my dad panicked. He never had a kid before, and crashed the car. Now, picture this: their car's demolished, crowd is starting to gather, my mom is yelling, going into contractions, and my dad, who was losing it before, is now completely screaming yellow zonkers. Then, out of nowhere, as if from thin air, this big giant
Oh, look what happened. Oh god, I'm so sorry. Are you OK?
Yeah. I'm fine. It didn't hurt.
I'm the clumsiest person in the world.
It's OK. Don't worry about it. Accidents happen.
Not at all. I, this guy here, he's Sonny Chiba.
The oriental.
The oriental in black. He's an assasin. Now, at the beginning he was hired to kill this guy the cops had. So he got himself arrested. They take him into the police station. And he starts kickin' all the cops' asses. Now, while keepin' them at bay, he finds the guy he was supposed to kill. Does a number on him. Kicks the cops'
Want some Goobers?
Thanks a lot.
I thought Sonny was the good guy.
Great movie. Action-packed!
Does Sonny kick ass or does Sonny kick ass?
Sonny kicks ass.
You shoulda saw the first original uncut version of the "Streetfighter". It was the only movie up to that time rated X for violence. But we just saw the R.
If that was the R, I'd love to see the X.
My name is Clarence, and what is yours?
Alabama Whitman. Pleased to meet ya.
Is that your real name? Really?
Where's your car? I'll walk you to it.
I took a cab.
You took a cab to see three kung fu movies?
Sure. Why not?
Nothing. It's just you're a girl after my own heart.
What time is it?
'Bout twelve.
I suppose you gotta get up early, huh?
No. Not particularly. How come?
Well, it's just when I see a really good movie I really like to go out and get some pie, and talk about it. It's sort of tradition. Do you like to eat pie after you've seen a good movie?
I love to get pie after a movie.
Would you like to get some pie?
Well, enough about the King. How about you?
How 'bout me what?
Tell me about yourself.
There's nothing to tell.
C'mon. What're ya tryin' to be? The Phantom Lady?
What do you want to know?
Ask me them again. One by one.
What do you do?
I don't remember.
Where are you from.
Might be from Tallahassee. But I'm not sure yet.
What's your favorite color?
I don't remember. But off the top of my head, I'd say black.
What's your favorite movie star?
Burt Reynolds.
Would you like a bite of my pie?
Like it?
Very much. Now, where were we?
What kinda music do you like?
Phil Spector. Girl group stuff. You know, like "He's a Rebel".
What are your turn-ons?
Mickey Rourke, somebody who can appreciate the finer things in life, like Elvis's voice, good kung fu, and a tasty piece of pie.
Turn-offs?
I'm sure there must be something, but I don't really remember. The only thing that comes to mind are Persians.
I'm not sure yet. Ask me again later.
What's the story behind you takin' a cab to the most dangerous part of town alone?
Apparently, I was hit on the head with something really heavy, giving me a form of amnesia. When I came to, I didn't know who I was, where I was, or where I came from. Luckily, I had my driver's license or I wouldn't even know my name. I hoped it would tell me where I lived but it had a Tallahassee address on
And in a theater full of empty seats, why did you sit by me?
Wow. What a swell place to work.
Yeah, I got the key, so I come here at night, hang out, read comic books, play music.
How long have you worked here?
Almost four years.
That's a long time.
I'm hip. But you know, I'm comfortable here. It's easy work. I know what I'm doing. Everybody who works here is my buddy. I'm friendly with most of the customers. I just hang around and talk about comic books all day.
Do you get paid a lot?
That's where trouble comes into paradise. But the boss let's you borrow some money if you need it. Wanna see what "Spiderman" number one looks like?
Four hundred bucks.
I didn't even know they had stores that just sold comic books.
What's that?
God, Spiderman looks different.
Oooooh, you look so cute in your little cowboy outfit. How old were you then?
Oh, you look so cute as little Elvis.
You know when you sat behind me?
At the movies?
Uh-huh, I was tryin' to think of somethin' to say to you, then I thought, she doesn't want me bothering her.
What would make you think that?
I dunno. I guess I'm just stupid.
I love Janis.
You know, a lot of people have misconceptions of how she died.
She OD'd, didn't she?
Yeah, she OD'd. But wasn't on her last legs or anythin'. She didn't take too much. It shouldn't have killed her. There was somethin' wrong with what she took.
You mean she got a bad batch?
That's what happened. In fact, when she died, it was considered to be the happiest time of her life. She'd been fucked over so much by men she didn't trust them. She was havin' this relationship with this guy and he asked her to marry him. Now, other people had asked to marry her before, but she couldn't be sure whether they really loved
So he really loved her?
What's wrong, sweetheart? Did I do something? What did I do?
You didn't do nothing.
Did you hurt yourself? Whatd'ya do? Step on a thumbtack?
Clarence, I've got something to tell you. I didn't just happen to be at the theater. I was paid to be there.
What are you, a theater checker? You check up on the box office girls. Make sure they're not rippin' the place off.
You're a whore?
I'm a call girl. There's a difference, ya know. I don't know. Maybe there's not. That place you took me to last night, that comic book place.
"Heroes For Sale"?
Yeah, that one. Somebody who works there arranged to have me meet you.
Who?
I don't know. I didn't talk with them. The plan was for me to bump into you, pick you up, spend the night, and skip out after you fell asleep. I was gonna write you a note and say that this was my last day in America. That I was leaving on a plane this morning up to Ukraine to marry a rich millionaire,
That dazzling imagination.
It's over on the TV. All it says is: "Dear Clarence." I couldn't write anymore. I didn't not want to ever see you again. In fact, it's stupid not to ever see you again. Las night... I don't know... I felt... I hadn't had that much fun since Girl Scouts. So I just said, "Alabama, come clean, Let him know what's what, and if
Who and what is a Drexl?
My pimp.
You have a pimp?
Uh-huh.
A real live pimp?
Uh-huh.
Is he black?
He thinks he is. He says his mother was Apache, but I suspect he's lying.
Is he nice?
Well, I wouldn't go so far as to call him nice, but he's treated me pretty decent. But I've only been there about four days. He got a little rough with Arlene the other day.
What did he do to Arlene?
Slapped her around a little. Punched her in the stomch. It was pretty scary.
Goddamn it, Alabama, you gotta get the fuck outta there! How much longer before he's slappin' you around? Punchin' you in the stomach? How the fuck did you get hooked up with a douche-bag like this in the first place?
At the bus station. He said I'd be a perfect call girl. And that he knew an agency in California that, on his recommendation, would handle me. They have a very exclusive clientele: movie stars, big businessmen, total white-collar. And all the girls in the agency get a grand a night. At least five hundred. They drive Porsches, live in condos, have stockbrokers, carry
Thank you. I wanna see you again too. And again, and again, and again. Bama, I know we haven't known each other long, but my parents went together all throughout high school, and they still got a divorce. So, fuck it, you wanna marry me?
What?
Yes.
You will?
You better not be fucking teasing me.
Did ya ever see "The Chinese Professionals"?
I don't believe so.
I do.
Hello, Mrs. Worley.
How do you do, Mr. Worley?
Top o' the morning, Mrs. Worley.
Bottom of the ninth . Mr. Worley. Oh, by the by, Mr. Worley, have you seen your lovely wife today?
Oh, you're speaking of my charming wife Mrs. Alabama Worley.
No no no no no no no no no...
Where you goin', honey?
Sweetheart, write down your former address.
What?
Write down Drexl's address.
Why?
So I can go over there and pick up your things.
Look, sweetheart, he scares you. But I'm not scared of that motherfucker. He can't touch you now. You're completely out of his reach. He poses absolutely no threat to us. So, if he doesn't matter, which he doesn't, it would be stupid to lose your things, now wouldn't it?
You don't know him -
Was it him or you?
Yeah. But to be honest, I put myself in that position. When I drove up there I said to myself, "If I can kill 'em and get away with it, I'll do it." I could. So I did.
Is this a joke?
I think what you did was...
What?
I think what you did...
What?
Do you want some wine, sweetheart?
You did it, Quickdraw. I'm so proud of you. You were like a ninja. Did I do my part OK?
Babalouey, you were perfect, I could hardly keep from busting up.
I felt so stupid just blowing those bubbles.
You were chillin', kind of creepy even. You totally fucked with his head. I'm gonna go grab dinner.
Ya know, I used to fuckin' hate airports.
Really?
With a vengeance, I hated them.
How come?
I used to live by one back in Dearborn. It's real frustratin' to be surrounded by airplanes when you ain't got shit. I hated where I was, but I couldn't do anythin' about it. I didn't have enough money. It was tough enough just tryin' to pay my rent every month, an' here I was livin' next to an airport. Whenever I went outside,
What?
But knowin' me and you gonna be nigger-rich gives me a whole new outlook. I love airports now. Me 'n' you can get on any one of those planes out there, and go anywhere we ant.
You ain't kiddin', we got lives to start over, we should go somewhere where we can really start from scatch.
I been in America all my life. I'm due for a change. I wanna see what TV in other countries is like. Besides, it's more dramatic. Where should we fly off to, my little turtledove?
Cancoon.
Why Cancoon?
It's got a nice ring to it. It sounds like a movie. "Clarence and Alabama Go to Cancoon". Don't 'cha think?
I thought it was what you wanted, Clarence.
It's been fun thinking about the money but I can walk away from it, honey.
What the fuck are you talkin' about?
Floyd say he don't be eatin' pussy.
Shit, any nigger say he don't eat pussy is lyin' his ass off.
Shit! Nigger you smoke enough sherm your dumb ass'll do a lot a crazy ass things. So you won't eat pussy? Motherfucker, you be up there suckin' niggers' dicks.
Damn skippy. He like it, too.
Nigger, get real. You touch Jayne Kennedy she'll have you ass in Wayne County so fast -
I'm hip.
Hold on a second, Big D. You sayin' you eat pussy?
Go on pussy-eaters... laugh. You look like you be eatin' pussy. You got pussy-eatin' mugs. Now if a nigger wants to get his dick sucked he's got to do a bunch of fucked-up shit.
So you do eat pussy!
Naw naw!
Ain't no man have to eat pussy!
What?
Can you live with it?
Live with what?
With that son-of-a-bitch walkin' around breathin' the same air as you? And gettin' away with it every day. Are you haunted?
Yeah.
You wanna get unhaunted?
Yeah.
Then shoot 'em. Shoot 'em in the face. And feed that boy to the dogs.
I can't believe what you're tellin' me.
I ain't tellin' ya nothin'. I'm just sayin' what I'd do.
You'd really do that?
He don't got no right to live.
Look, Elvis, he is hauntin' me. He doesn't deserve to live. And I do want to kill him. But I don't wanna go to jail for the rest of my life.
I don't blame you.
If I thought I could get away with it -
Clarence, I gotta hand it to ya. You were cooler than cool.
I was dying. I thought for sure everyone could see it on my face.
All anybody saw was Clint Eastwood drinkin' coffee.
Can you develop an ulcer in two minutes? Being cool is hard on your body.
Oh, and your line to Charles Atlas in there: "I'll take that gun", "You'll have to".
How do you think I'm doin' with Lee?
Are you kiddin'? He loves you.
You don't think I'm kissin' his ass, do you?
You're tellin' him what he wants to hear, but that ain't the same thing as kissin' his ass.
I'm not lyin' to him. I mean it. I loved "Coming Home in a Body Bag".
Where the fuck is that bitch?
She's with me.
Who the fuck are you?
I'm her husband.
Grab a seat there, boy. Want some dinner? Grab yourself an egg roll. We got everything here from a diddle-eyed-Joe to a damned-if-I-know.
No thanks.
Wannabee nigger...
Clarence?
You got it.
It's great to hear from you.
Well, you're gonna be seein' me shortly.
You comin' to L.A.? When?
Tomorrow.
Well, there's a story behind all that. I'll tell you when I see you. By the way, I won't be alone. I'm bringing my wife with me.
Get the fuck outta here!
I'm a married man.
Get the fuck outta here!
What?
Alabama, could you tell Clar -
Clarence sent a letter?
Money problems?
That's a pretty amazing story.
Well, she's a pretty amazing girl. What are women like out here?
Just like in Detroit, only skinnier.
You goin' out?
Well, for the past couple of years I've been goin' out with girls from my acting class.
Good for you.
... formica. I did real well. I think she liked me.
Did you meet Captain Kirk?
How much of that letter was on the up and up?
You're really in love, aren't you?
This shit can't be real.
It's fuckin' real! It's fuckin' real!
I certainly hope so.
You've got a helluva lotta coke there, man!
I know.
Do you have any idea how much fuckin' coke you got?
Tell me.
This is Drexl's coke?
Drexl's dead. This is Clarence's coke and Clarence can do whatever he wants with it. And what Clarence wants to do is sell it. Then me and Bama are gonna leave on a jet plane and spend the rest of our lives spendin'. So, you got my letter, have you lined up any buyers?
But you're an actor. I hear these Hollywood guys have it delivered to the set.
Yeah, they do. And maybe when I start being a successful actor I'll know those guys. But most of the people I know are like me. They ain't got a pot to piss in or a window to throw it out of. Now, if you want to sell a little bit at a time -
No way! The whole enchilada in one shot.
Do you have any idea how difficult that's gonna be?
I'm offering a half a million dollars worth of white for two hundred thousand. How difficult can that be?
It's difficult because you're sellin' it to a particular group. Big shots. Fat cats. Guys who can use that kind of quantity. Guys who can afford two hundred thousand. Basically, guys I don't know. You don't know. And, more important, they don't know you. I did talk with one guy who could possibly help you.
Is he big league?
He's nothing. He's in my acting class. But he works as an assistant to a very powerful movie producer named Lee Donowitz. I thought Donowitz could be interested in a deal like this. He could use it. He could afford it.
What'd'ya tell 'em?
Hardly anything. I wasn't sure from your letter what was bullshit, and what wasn't.
What's this acting class guy's name?
Elliot.
Elliot what?
Elliot Blitzer.
OK, call 'im up and arrange a meeting, so we can get through all the getting to know you stuff.
Where?
The zoo.
The zoo. What are you waiting for?
Would you just shut up a minute and let me think?
What's to think about?
Shut up! First you come waltzing into my life after two years. You're married. You killed a guy.
Two guys.
Two guys. Now you want me to help you with some big drug deal. Fuck, Clarence, you killed somebody and you're blowin' it off like it don't mean shit.
Clarence...
Yeah, well if we got lost, it's your ass. Come on, Clarence, lets go. Elliot's going to meet us in the lobby.
I got the part on "T.J. Hooker".
They didn't even want a callback. They just hired me like that. Me and Peter Breck are the two heavies. We start shooting Monday. My call is for seven o'clock in the morning.
Clarence.
Yeah?
What the fuck did you bring that for.
In case.
In case of what?
In case they try to kill us. I don't know, what do you want me to say?
Look, Dillinger, Lee Donowitz is not a pimp -
Do you really mean it?
Now's a helluva time to play "what if".
Well, if we're not gonna do it, let's just get in the car and get the fuck outta here.
No. But thanks.
I'd fuck Elvis.
Really?
When he was alive. I wouldn't fuck him now.
Well, enough about the King, how 'bout you?
How 'bout me what?
How 'bout you go to the movies with me tonight?
What are we gonna see?
A Donny Chiba triple feature. "The Streetfighter", "Return of the Streetfighter", and "Sister Streetfighter".
Who's Sonny Chiba?
He is, bar none, the greatest actor working in martial arts movies ever.
You wanna take me to a kung fu movie?
So you guys got five hundred thousand dollars worth of cola that you're unloading -
Want an animal cracker?
Leave the gorillas.
- that you're unloading for two hundred thousand dollars -
I grow it on my window-sill. The lights really great there and I'm up high enough so you can't see it from the street.
Ha ha ha. No really, where does it come from?
Coco leaves. You see, they take the leaves and mash it down until it's kind of a paste -
Look, Dick, I don't -
No problem, Elliot. I'm just fuckin' wit ya, that's all. Actually, I'll tell you but you gotta keep it quiet. Understand, if Dick didn't assure me you're good people I'd just tell ya, none of your fuckin' business. But, as a sign of good faith, here it goes: I gotta friend in the department.
What department?
What do you think, eightball?
The police department?
Duh. What else would I be talking about? Now stop askin' stupid doorknob questions. Well, a year and a half ago, this friend of mine got access to the evidence room for an hour. He snagged this coke. But, he's a good cop with a wife and a kid, so he sat on it for a year and a half until he found a
He trusts you?
We were in Four H together. We've known each other since childhood. So, I'm handling the sales part. He's my silent partner and he knows if I get fucked up, I won't drop dime on him. I didn't tell you nothin' and you didn't hear nothin'.
What?
Do I look like a beautiful blond with big tits and an ass that tastes like French vanilla ice-cream?
No. No, you don't.
Get it straight, Lee isn't into taking risks. He deals with a couple of guys, and he's been dealing with them for years. They're reliable. They're dependable. And, they're safe.
He wants to talk ya.
He says Wednesday at three o'clock at the Beverly Wilshire. He wants everybody there. He'll talk to you. If after talkin' to you he's convinced you're OK, he'll do business. If not, he'll say fuck it and walk out the door. He also wants a sample bag.
Where's everybody else?
Well, I guess it's about that time.
Elliot.
Yeah?
Don't you?
No.
Say it, goddamn it!
You are the dumbest person in the world.
Apparently I'm not as dumb as you thought I am.
No. No you're not.
Yeah, I subscribe. It's a pretty decent one.
Have you read the story on Elvis?
No. Not yet.
You know, I saw it on the stands, my first inclination was to buy it. But, I look at the price and say forget it, it's just gonna be the same old shit. I ended up breaking down and buying it a few days later. Man, I was ever wrong.
It tried to pin down what the attraction is after all these years. It covers the whole spectrum of fans, the people who love his music, the people who grew up with him, the artists he inspired - Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, and the fanatics, like these guys. I don't know about you, but they give me the creeps.
I can see what you mean.
I don't know, Clarence, "Doctor Zhivago" is a pretty big movie.
But the bottom line is: I'm not Paramount. I have a select group of distributers I deal with. I buy their little movies. Accomplish what I wanna accomplish, end of story. Easy, business-like, very little risk.
Well, then, what's the hurry? Is it true the rights to "Doctor Zhivago" are in arbitration?
Well, I have to admit, walkin' through the door and seein' these "Soldier of Fortune" poster boys made me a bit nervous. But, Lee, I'm fairly confident that you came here to do business, not to be a wise-guy. So, if you want, I'll put the gun on the table.
Oh, Mr. Donowitz -
Lee, Clarence . Please don't insult me. Call me Lee.
OK, sorry, Lee. I just wanna tell you "Coming Home in a Body Bag" is one of my favorite movies. After "Apocalypse Now" I think it's the best Vietnam movie ever.
Thank you very much, Clarence.
You know, most movies that win a lot of Oscars, I can't stand. "Sophie's Choice", "Ordinary People", "Kramer vs. Kramer", "Gandhi". All that stuff is safe, geriatric, coffee-table dog shit.
I hear you talkin' Clarence. We park our cars in the same garage.
Now, that's practically uncut. You could, if you so desire, cut it a helluva lot more.
Don't worry, I'll desire. Boris, could I have some more coffee.
You like a little coffee with your cream and sugar?
Where'd you go?
A Norms in Van Nuys.
Elliot tells me you're fronting for a dirty cop.
Well, Elliot wasn't supposed to tell you anythin'. Thanks a lot, bigmouth. I knew you were a squid the moment I laid eyes on you. In my book, buddy, you're a piece of shit. He's not a dirty cop, he's a good cop. He just saw his chance and he took it.
Why does he trust you?
We grew up together.
If you don't know shit, why does he think you can sell it?
Wanna count your money?
I think there's a Seven-Up in there.
Anything stronger? Oh, probably not. Beer? You can drink beer, can't you?
I can, but I don't.
Go to the liquor store - Where is there a liquor store around here?
Uh, yeah... there's a party store down 54th.
I'm really not very -
You know what would taste good? Chicken. I haven't had chicken in a while. Chicken would really hit the spot about now. Chicken and beer, definitly, absolutely, without a doubt. Where's a good chicken place around here?
I really don't know.
Isn't she the sweetest goddamned girl you ever saw in your whole life? Is she a four alarm fire, or what?
She seems very nice.
Daddy. Nice isn't the word. Nice is an insult. She's a peach. That's the only word for it, she's a peach. She even tastes like a peach. You can tell I'm in love with her. You can tell by my face, can't ya? It's a dead giveaway. It's written all over it. Ya know what? She loves me back. Take a seat, Pop, we
Clarence, just shut up, you're giving me a headache! I can't believe how much like your mother you are. You're your fuckin' mother through and through. I haven't heard from ya in three years. Then ya show up all of a sudden at eight o'clock in the morning. You walk in like a goddamn bulldozer... don't get me wrong, I'm happy to see you...
Look, I don't know this is pretty heavy-duty, so if you wanna explode, feel free.
What do you want from me?
What?
Stop acting like an infant. You're here because you want me to help you in some way. What do you need from me? You need money?
Do you still have friends on the force?
Yes, I still have friends on the force.
Could you find out if they know anythin'? I don't know they know shit about us. But I don't wanna think, I wanna know. You could find out for sure what's goin' on. Daddy?
What makes you think I could do that?
You were a cop.
What makes you think I would do that?
I'm your son.
You got it all worked out, don't you?
They have nothing. In fact, they think it's drug related.
Do tell. Why drug related?
Apparently, Drexl had a big toe stuck in shit like that.
No shit?
Yeah. Drexl had an association with a fella named Blue Lou Boyle. Name mean anything to you?
Nope.
If you don't hang around in this circle, no reason it should.
Who is he?
Gangster. Drug Dealer. Somebody you don't want on your ass. Look, Clarence, the more I hear about this Drexl fucker, the more I think you did the right thing. That guy wasn't just some wild flake.
That's what I've been tellin' ya. The guy was like a mad dog. So the cops aren't looking for me?
Thanks a lot, Daddy. You really came through for me.
I got some money I can give you -
Keep it.
Well, son, I want you to know I hope everything works out with you and Alabama. I like her. I think you make a cute couple.
We do make a cute couple, don't we?
Do you know who I am, Mr. Worley?
I give up. Who are you?
I'm the Anti-Christ. You get me in a vendetta kind of mood, you will tell the angels in heaven that you had never seen pure evil so singularly personified as you did in the face of the man who killed you. My name is Vincenzo Coccotti. I work as a counsel for Mr. Blue Lou Boyle, the man your son stole from. I hear
I've heard of Blue Lou Boyle.
I'm glad. Hopefully that will clear up the how-full-of-shit-I-am question you've been asking yourself. Now, we're gonna have a little Q and A, and, at the risk of sounding redundant, please make your answers genuine. Want a Chesterfield?
No.
I have a son of my own. About you boy's age. I can imagine how painful this must be for you. But Clarence and that bitch-whore girlfriend of his brought this all on themselves. And I implore you not to go down the road with 'em. You can always take comfort in the fact that you never had a choice.
I've seen him.
Now I can't be sure of how much of what he told you. So in the chance you're in the dark about some of this, let me shed some light. That whore your boy hangs around with, her pimp is an associate of mine, and I don't just mean pimpin', in other affairs he works for me in a courier capacity. Well, apparently, that
What are you talkin' about?
I'm talkin' about a massacre. They snatched my narcotics and hightailed it outta there. Wouldda gotten away with it, but your son, fuckhead that he is, left his driver's license in a dead guy's hand. A whore hiding in the commode filled in all the blanks.
I don't believe you.
That's of minor importance. But what's of major fuckin' importance is that I believe you. Where did they go?
On their honeymoon.
I'm gettin' angry askin' the same question a second time. Where did they go?
Could I have one of those Chesterfields now?
Oh, don't bother. I got one. So you're a Sicilian, huh?
Uh-huh.
Come again?
It's about that pimp that was shot a couple of days ago, Drexl Spivey.
What about him?
Well, Ted, to tell you the truth, I found out through the grapevine that it might be, and I only said might be, the Drexl Spivey that was responsible for that restaurant break-in on Riverdale.
Are you still working security for Foster & Langley?
Yeah, and the restaurant's on my route. And you know, I stuck my nose in for the company to try to put a stop to some of these break-ins. Now, while I have no proof, the name Drexl Spivey kept comin' up Who's case is it?
McTeague.
I don't know him. Is he a nice guy? You think he'll help me out?
I don't see why not. When you gonna come round and see my new place?
You and Robin moved?
I'm me... I mean, that's me.
Well, the part you're reading for is one of the bad guys. There's Brian and Marty. Peter Breck's already been cast as Brian. And you're reading for the part of Marty. Now in this scene you're both in a car and Bill Shatner's hanging on the hood. And what you're trying to do is get him off. Whenever you're ready.
Where'd you come from?
I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
That was very good.
Thank you.
If we decided on making him a New York type, could you do that?
Sure. No problem.
Could we try it now?
Where'd he come from?
I don't know. He just appeared as magic.
Both you, idiots shut up, I can't understand shit! Now, what's happened, what's going on, and what are you talking about?
That Vietnam movie?
Uh-huh.
That was a good fuckin' movie.
Sure was.
Do you believe him?
He'll wear a wire?
We talked him into it.
Dirty cops. We'll have to bring in internal affairs on this.
Look, sunshine, we found a sandwich bag of uncut cocaine -
Not a tiny little vial -
But a fuckin' baggie.
No don't sit here and feed us some shit.
You got caught. It's all fun and fuckin' games till you get caught. But now we gotcha. OK, Mr. Elliot actor, you've just made the big time -
You're no longer an extra -
Or a bit player -
Or a supporting actor -
You're a fuckin' star! And you're gonna be playin' your little one-man show nightly for the next two fuckin' years for a captive audience -
But there is a bright side though. If you ever have to play a part of a guy who gets fucked in the ass on a daily basis by throat-slitting niggers, you'll have so much experience to draw on -
And just think, when you get out in a few years, you'll meet some girl, get married, and you'll be so understanding to your wife's needs, because you'll know what it's like to be a woman.
'Course you'll wanna fuck her in the ass. Pussy just won't feed right anymore -
Krinkle, this is it. We got it, man. And it's all ours. I mean talk about fallin' into somethin'. You shoulda seen it, it was beautiful. Dimes is hittin' him from the left about being fucked in the ass by niggers, I'm hittin' him form the right about not likin' pussy anymore, finally he starts cryin', and then it was all over -
Nicholson and I.
Nicholson and I go to work on him. Now er know somthing's rotten in Denmark, 'cause this dickhead had a big bag, and it's uncut, too, so we're sweatin' him, trying to find out where he got it. Scarin' the shit outta him.
Which wasn't too hard, the guy was a real squid.
Suspect's words -
To front for him. So Elliot is workin' out the deal between them and his boss, a big movie producer named Lee Donowitz.
He's so spooked he'd turn over his momma, his daddy, his two-panny granny, and Anna and the King of Siam if he had anything on him.
Like gang-busters. Now, remember, if you don't want to go to jail, we gotta put your boss in jail.
We have to show in court that, without a doubt, a successful man, an important figure in the Hollywood community, is also dealing cocaine.
You do more than try.
You do.
He knows.
How the fuck could he know?
He saw the wire.
How's he supposed to see the wire?
We gotta get him outta there.
He's bluffin ya, Elliot. Can't you see that? You're an actor, remember, the show must go on.
Don't blow it, Elliot. He's bluffin'. He just told you so himself.
What was I sayin'?
Rock whores.
Looky here, you want the bitches to really fly high, make your rocks with Cherry Seven-Up.
You OK? That stupid dumb-ass didn't break your nose, did he?
You see what you get when you fuck wit me, white boy? You're gonna walk in my goddamn house, my house! Gonna come in here and tell me! Talkin' smack, in my house, in front of my employees. Shit! Your ass must be crazy. I don't think that white boy's got good sense. Hey, Marty. He must of thought it was white boy day.
Naw, man, it ain't white boy day.
I'll keep lover boy here entertained. You know the first thing I'll do when she gets here. I think I'll make her suck my dick, and I'll come all in her face. I mean it ain't nuttin' new. She's done it before. But I want you as a audience. Marty, what the fuck are you doin'?
I'm tryin' to find my jacket.
Nigger, get outta my face with that bullshit.
Naw man, I don't be eatin' that shit.
Naw man, that's some serious shit.
Preach on, Big D.
Yeah, that's right, laugh. It's so funny, oh it's so funny. There used to be a time when sisters didn't know shit about gettin' their pussy licked. Then the sixties came an' they started fuckin' around with white boys. And white boys are freaks for that shit -
- Because it's good!
Well fuck you guys then! You guys are fucked up!
Why you trippin'? We jus' fuckin' with ya. But I wanna ask you a question. You with some fine bitch, I mean a brick shithouse bitch - you're with Jayne Kennedy. You're with Jayne Kennedy and you say "Bitch, suck my dick!" and then Jayne Kennedy says, "First things first, nigger, I ain't suckin' shit till you bring your ass over here and lick
You tell Jayne Kennedy to fuck it?
If it came down to who eats who, damn skippy.
Fuck! I knew it! I fucking knew it! I should have my head examined, driving like this! Kandi, you gotta help me.
You gotta hold this for me.
You must be high. Uh-huh. No way.
Just put it in your purse.
I'm not gonna put that shit in my purse.
They won't search you. I promise. You haven't done anything.
No way, Jos.
Please, they'll be here any minute. Just put it in your bra.
I'm not wearing a bra.
Put it in your pants.
No.
You're the one who wanted to drive fast.
Hello, is Dick Ritchie here?
Naw, he ain't home right now.
Do you live here?
Yeah, I live here.
Sorta room-mates?
Exactly room-mates.
Maybe you can help me. Actually, who I'm looking for is a friend of ours from Detroit. Clarence Worley? I heard he was in town. Might be travelling with a pretty girl named Alabama. Have you seen him? Are they stayin' here?
Naw, they ain't stayin' here. But, I know who you're talkin' about. They're stayin' at the Hollywood Holiday Inn.
How do you know? You been there?
No, I ain't been there. But I heard him say. Hollywood Holiday Inn. Kinda easy to remember.
Yes.
Are you Dick Ritchie?
No.
Do you know a Clarence Worley?
Yes.
Do you know where we can find him?
He's at the Beverly Wilshire.
Where's that?
Excuse me, Mr. Coccotti. Do you know Nick Cardella?
No.
Then where the hell do you get off talkin' that kind of talk?
I didn't mean -
What was the Jew-boy's name?
We want you to tell us about last night.
Wake up, Cole.
No, sir!
Well?
Him? You saw that man?
Women will want to get to know you...
The food, the sky, the certain, uh, sexual temptations -- you haven't become "addicted" have you, Cole? To that "dying" world'
You said we weren't "real," Cole...
I understand. There'd be no point.
To be determined by the proper authorities.
We want tough minded people. Strong mentally. We've had some...misfortunes with "unstable" types.
He's drugged out of his mind! He's completely zoned out.
But just until you recover your, uh,... equilibrium.
We're very close! Because of you!
I told you that fuckhead Mason would get us into something like this.
That's him.
It's the kidnap woman -- the one who was with the guy who tied us up.
What's she doing?
Wow, a guy in a Chevy is chasing her and some other guy I can't see.
It's important to observe everything.
They forced me to take drugs.
Forced you! Why would someone force you to take drugs?
Let's consider again our current information -- if the symptoms were first detected in Philadelphia on June 28, 1995, that makes us know that...?
It was released in Philadelphia, probably on June 14, 1995.
San Francisco, New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
Meaning...???
That the virus was taken from Philadelphia to San Francisco, then to New Orleans, Rio de Janeiro, Rome, Kinshasa, Karachi, Bangkok, then Peking.
And your only goal is...???
To find out where the virus is so a qualified scientist can travel back into the past and study the original virus.
So that...???
Mr. Cole? My name is Doctor Railly. I'm a psychiatrist. I work for the County -- I don't work for the police. My only concern is your well being -- do you understand that?
I need to go now.
I'm going to be completely honest. I'm not going to lie to you. I can't make the police let you go...but I do want to help you. And I want you to trust me. Can you do that, James? May I call you "James"?
"James"! Nobody ever calls me that.
Have you been a patient at County? Have I seen you someplace?
No, not possible. Listen, I have to get out of here. I'm supposed to be getting information.
What kind of information?
It won't help you. You can't do anything about it. You can't change anything.
Change what?
I need to go.
Do you know why you're here, James.
Because I'm a good observer. Because I have a tough mind.
I see. You don't remember assaulting a police officer...several officers?
They wanted identification. I don't have any identification. I wasn't trying to hurt them.
You don't have a driver's license, James? Or a Social Security card?
No.
Why not? Most people have some ID.
You wouldn't understand.
You've been in an institution, haven't you, James? A hospital?
I have to go.
A jail? Prison?
Underground.
Hiding?
I love this air. This is wonderful air.
What's wonderful about the air, James?
It's so clean. No germs.
You're afraid of germs?
I have to go.
Why do you think there aren't any germs in the air, James?
This is April, right?
July.
July?!
Do you know what year it is?
What year is it?
What year do you think it is?
1995?
You think it's July of 1995? That's the future, James. Do you think you're living in the future?
No, 1995 is the past.
It was some lady. She didn't know anything.
Perhaps it was a wrong number...
James, where did you grow up? Was it around here? Around Baltimore?
What?
I have the...strangest feeling I've met you before...a long time ago, perhaps. Were you ever...?
It's just a shot to calm you.
No more drugs. Please...
Cole! James Cole! You escaped from a locked room six years ago.
I can't believe this is a coincidence, Mr. Cole. Have you been...following me?
You told me you'd help me. I know this isn't what you meant, but...I was desperate... no money...bum leg... sleeping on the streets. I probably smell bad. Sorry about that. But then I saw your book in a store window with a notice about your lecture. I can read, remember?
Yes, I remember. Why do you want to go to Philadelphia?
You used to call me "James".
You'd prefer that? ... James...you don't really have a gun, do you.
"Never cry wolf!"
What?
My father told me that. "Never cry wolf." Then people won't believe you if...something really happens.
"If something really happens"...like what, James?
Did something terrible happen to you when you were a child? Something so bad...?
You were in my dream just now. Your hair was different, but I'm sure it was you.
We dream about what's important in our lives. And I seem to have become pretty important in yours. What was the dream about?
About an airport...before everything happened. It's the same dream I always have -- the only one. I'm a little kid in it.
And I was in it? What did I do?
You were very upset. You're always very upset in the dream, but I never knew it was you before.
No, I think it was always you. It's very strange.
My notes. Observations. Clues.
Clues? What kind of clues?
A secret army. The Army of The Twelve Monkeys. I've told you about them. They spread the virus. That's why we have to get to Philadelphia. I have to find them -- it's my assignment.
What will you do...when you find this...secret army?
Does that disturb you, James? Thinking about that little boy in the well?
When I was a kid I identified with that kid, down there alone in that pipe...a hundred feet down -- doesn't know if they're going to save him.
What do you mean -- when you were a kid?
Look, I'm warning you. You do anything, I'm going to go crazy -- hurt people!
They're keeping an eye on me.
Who's keeping an eye on you?
Are you hurt?
Oh, Jesus, James! You killed him!
You didn't have a gun before, did you?
I told you what I want. Lock the door!
James, why don't we...?
Mason???
All I see are dead people. Everywhere. What's three more?
The guy was a total fruitcake.
We need gas.
I thought you didn't know how to drive.
I said I was too young to drive. I didn't say I was stupid.
What's the matter with your leg?
I got shot. Look -- there's a gas station up ahead.
Shot! Who shot you?
You were going to run out off gas on purpose, weren't you?
No. I want you to turn yourself in, James -- It'll go much better for you if you do -- but I'm not going to trick you.
You smell so good.
What have you done? Did you...kill someone?
No! I...don't think so. I stole a car and they chased me. I hit a tree.
See -- you can drive after all!
What made you think that?
Jeffrey Mason said it was my idea about the virus. And suddenly, I wasn't sure. We talked when I was in the institution, and it was all...fuzzy. The drugs and stuff. You think maybe I'm the one who wiped out the human race? It was my idea?
Nobody is going to wipe out the human race. Not you or Jeffrey or anybody else. You've created something in your mind, James -- a substitute reality. In order to avoid something you don't want to face.
I'm..."mentally divergent". I would love to believe that.
I need help all right. They're coming after me.
First, it's important that you surrender to them instead of them catching you running. Okay?
It would be great if I'm crazy. If I'm wrong about everything...the world will be okay. I'll never have to live underground.
Give me the gun.
The gun! ... I lost it
You're sure?
James! That's a policeman. Pretend you don't know me. If he sees you...
I don't understand what we're doing.
We're avoiding the police until I can....talk to you.
Okay...you were standing there looking at the moon...you were eating grass... then what?
I thought I was in...prison again.
Just like that? You were in prison?
No, not really. It's...it's in my mind. Like you said.
You disappeared! One minute you were there, the next minute you were gone. Did you run through the woods?
I don't know -- I don't remember.
The boy in the well. How did you know that was just a hoax?
It was? I didn't...know.
James, you said he was hiding in the barn...
I think I saw a TV show like that when I was a kid. Where a boy...
What does this mean to you?
...I had a dream about...something like that.
You had a bullet from World War One in your leg, James! How did it get there?
You said I had delusions -- that I created a world -- you said you could explain everything...
I want to be here. In this time. With you. I want to become...become a whole person. I want this to be the present. I want the future to be unknown.
You want me to rob him?
It's a Carpet Cleaning Company...
A Carpet Cleaning Company?
No superiors! No scientists. No people from the future. It's just a Carpet Cleaning Company. They have voice mail -- you leave a message telling them when you want your carpet cleaned.
You... you left them a message?
You... you couldn't have heard me.
I think I've seen this movie before. When I was a kid. It was on TV.
Shh -- don't talk. Hold still.
I have seen it, but I don't remember this part. Funny, it's like what's happening to us, like the past. The movie never changes -- it can't change -- but everytime you see it, it seems to be different because you're different -- you notice different things.
If we can't change anything...because it's already happened, then we ought to at least smell the flowers.
Why are we doing this?
But maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you're wrong. Maybe we're both crazy.
You were in my dream just now. I didn't recognize you.
Well, you look pretty different, too.
I mean in my dream -- I didn't realize it was you. Then...I woke up and I...I thought you were gone.
That's what they were up to! Freeing animals!
I know this place! ... This is my dream.
They may be looking for us, James. Use this. You can fix it in the Men's Room.
I was here...as a kid. I think you were here, too. But you...looked just like you look now.
James, if we're identified, they're going to send us someplace...but not to Key West!
Right! You're right. I have to fix this.
Does this bother you, Mr. Cole?
No! Look, I don't belong here! What I need to do is make a telephone call to straighten everything out.
Who would you call, Mr. Cole, who would straighten everything out?
Scientists. I'm supposed to report in to them. They'll want to know they sent me to the wrong time.
So you could talk to these scientists and they do what? Send you to the future?
What'd they give you? Thorazine? How much? Learn your drugs -- know your doses.
I need to make a telephone call.
Germs?!
"What about the germs?" I say. He goes, "I don't believe in germs. Germs are just a plot they made up so they can sell you disinfectants and soap!" Now, he's crazy, right? Hey, you believe in germs, don't you?
I'm not crazy.
Of course not, I never thought you were. You want to escape, right? That's very sane. I can help you. You want me to, don't you? Get you out?
If you know how to escape, why don't you...?
Why don't I escape, that's what you were going to ask me, right? 'Cause I'd be crazy to escape! I'm all taken care of, see? I've sent out word.
What's that mean?
They hurt you!
Look at those assholes, they're asking for it! Maybe people deserved to be wiped out!
Wiping cut the human race! That's a great idea! But it's more of a long term thing -- right now we have to focus on more immediate goals. I didn't say a word about "you know what".
What are you talking about???
What're you writing? You a reporter?
It's private.
What....???
Wooooo, they really dosed you, bro. Major load! Listen up -- try and get it together. Focus! Focus! The plan! Remember? I did my part.
What...???
Never saw him before in my life. Go ahead and shoot him or torture him or whatever it is you do.
You do know me. You helped me once.
That would be totally out of character. Helping people is against my principles. See, he definitely doesn't know me. Now, I'm going to go back and listen to my father's very eloquent discourse on the perils of science WHILE YOU TORTURE THIS INTRUDER TO DEATH.
Excuse me -- what did you say?
County Hospital, right? 1989. The "Immaculate Escape" -- am I right? Why, thank you -- you look wonderful, too.
Listen to me -- I can't do anything about what you're going to do. I can't change anything. I can't stop you. I just want some information...
We need to talk. Come on. Upstairs. I am a new person! I'm completely adjusted. Witness the tux. It's Armani. Who chattered? Goines? Weller?
I don't have time to go upstairs. The police are looking for me. I need to know where it is and exactly what it is.
I get it! This is your old plan, right?
Plan? What are you talking about?
Remember? We were in the dayroom, watching TV, and you were all upset about the...desecration of the planet. And you said to me, "Wouldn't it be great if there was a germ or a virus that could wipe out mankind and leave the plants and animals just as they are?" You do remember that, don't you?
Bulishit! You're fucking with my head!
And that's when I told you my father was this famous virologist and you said, "Hey, he could make a germ and we could steal it!"
JOSE!
Jo...Jose????
Me? Are you kiddin? You're the one! You were a hero, man. They gave you a pardon! And whadda you do? You come back and fuck with your teeth! Wow!
How did you find me?
The phone call, man. The phone call.
The call I just made? Five minutes ago?
This part isn't about the virus, is it?
Hey, man...
It's about obeying, about doing what you're told.
They gave you a pardon, man. Whatdaya want?
I mashed the spider, didn't I?
I asked you, why did you volunteer?
Uh, that message...me?
It's a digital reconstruction of a message, Cole, from a weak signal on our contact number. Did you make that call?
But you know what's real now?
Don't be defensive, Kathryn, this isn't an inquisition.
I didn't think I was being defensive. I was just...
He should have been in restraints. It was bad judgment on your part, plain and simple. why not just cop to it?
Okay, it was bad judgment. But I have the strangest feeling about him -- I've seen him somewhere and...
Two policemen were already in the hospital and now we have an orderly with a broken arm and a Security Officer with a fractured skull.
I said it was bad judgment! What else do you want me to say?
He was fully sedated!
He kidnapped you, Kathryn. You saw him murder someone. You knew there was a real possibility he would kill you, too. You were under tremendous emotional stress.
For God sakes, Owen, listen to me -- he knew about the boy in Fresno and he says three billion people are going to die!
Kathryn, you know he can't possibly know that. You're a rational person. You're a trained psychiatrist. You know the difference between what's real and what's not.
What...virus?
She knew about it, Jeffrey. She knew you were going to try this.
What virus are we talking about, Dad?
You're insane, Jeffrey.
You "develop" viruses and you're calling me insane? Typical. What does this virus attack? Don't tell me, you sick fuck, it doesn't matter. Have I ever "developed" a virus? Do I put helpless animals in cages and measure their reactions to electrical stimuli? Do I inject radioactive substances into living creatures and examine their bowel movements? Wow! And I'm crazy!
Please tell me, Jeffrey, what exactly are you going to do? I don't have to tell you I'm afraid.
One dozen bolt cutters! Whadda you gonna do with one dozen bolt cutters?
You really want to know?
WHY DON'T WE FORGET MY GODDAMN PSYCHIATRIST AND DEAL WITH THE TASK AT HAND. THIS IS IMPORTANT.
Your psychiatrist? Did you just say, "your psychiatrist"?
Ex-psychiatrist! Now, what about flashlights? How many flashlights...?
WHO CARES WHAT PSYCHIATRISTS WRITE ON WALLS? You think I told her about the Army of the 12 Monkeys? Impossible! Know why, you pathetically ineffectual and pusillanimous "pretend-friend-to- animals"?! I'll tell you why: because when I had anything to do with her six years ago, there was no such thing -- I hadn't even thought of it yet!
-- so they get there and they ask the guy real nice for some kind of i.d., and he gets agitated, starts screaming about viruses. Totally irrational, totally disoriented, doesn't know where he is, what day it is, alla that stuff. All they got was his name. They figure he's stoned out of his mind, it's some kinda psychotic episode, so they're gonna bring
He's been tested for drugs?
You have him in restraints.
That would explain the bruises, I guess. The struggle.
You want to go in? Examine him?
Yes, please. You said he gave a name...
James Cole. That's everything we got. None of the James Coles on the computer match him. No license, no prints, no warrants. Nothing. You want me to go in with you?
No, thank you.
Nine thirty
Might be tight.
Tight? My watch says 7:30.
On your normal mornin', okay, plenty a time, but today, gotta take inta account your Army-of-the-Twelve-Monkeys factor.
What? What did you say?
Hey! You there!
You want something, old man?
Don't call me old man. Ain't you got no respect, boy?
You want something?
Yeah I want something. I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
You can't do that yourself?
Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind. Can't you see that?
I'm sorry, I didn't--
What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on? Sunnin' myself?
I don't know. I thought you were keeping the sun from your eyes.
I ain't got no eyes. You want to see?
Christ no!
Lost my eyes on Okinawa. Lost them fighting the war. Fought the war and lost my eyes just so you could come around here and make fun of me.
I said I was sorry.
Don't be sorry. Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
Yeah, sure. You got change?
Change? You want my change? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
Get me a Dr. Peppa! I don't want no Pepsi. Pepsi ain't nothing but flavored water.
Don't forget to open it for me. I can't be opening my own bottle.
I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
Oh, Jesus.
I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
He's only just dead. What was I supposed to do with him? I can't take him away anywhere. And nobody wants to take him for me. Do you?
He no!
You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
That a fact?
I can see just fine. For example: You're a young man who thinks he's got someplace to be.
Maybe I do.
Or maybe you just think you do. You can run just as far as you can, but wherever you go, there you are.
I think I've heard that before.
What do you want for free?
You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
That's 'cause I've done a lot of living.
Maybe one day I'll get to sit on a corner and spout wise.
Ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
I'm a little short. I'll catch you next time.
The day wasn't so bad. We all got through it all right.
Ain't over yet. Night is part of day; separate, but equal. Night is when you let your guard down; when you see things in the shadows and hear things in the dark.
You're a hell of a pessimist, old man.
Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
You afraid of the dark?
Afraid of it? Boy, I live in the dark. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, a lick from a dog. The kiss of death. It's all the same.
You don't fear death?
We was born to die, boy. From the minute you take your first breath you got a death sentence hanging over your head. You just don't know where, or when, or how. Don't make sense worryin' about the particulars.
We're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride. Is that it?
More or less.
Not this twig, friend. I got plans.
We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
No and I don't plan on sticking around either. I don't guess I'll be seeing you again. Take it easy.
Any parting words of wisdom?
I'll take a piece of that bet. I say it doesn't come up five times each side.
Well, a man with some gumption. How much money you got?
Nothing.
You want to make a kiddies bet?
It's a Movado.
Never heard of it. It's got no day or date. Hell, it ain't even got numbers. What's the matter? You couldn't afford a Timex?
Thirty-bucks? That's it?
That's my morning's pay.
One-hundred-thirteen degrees. That was back in July of forty-seven. Now there ain't no way it's gonna be hotter than that.
Hundred and eight ain't a hundred and thirteen.
Will be.
You ain't nothing but an old fool.
It's nonsense.
It is not.
A coin's got two sides. When you flip it there's a fifty-fifty chance it'll be heads or tails. Boyd thinks if you flip a coin ten times half the time it'll come up each side.
It will.
And what are you? A rocket scientist?
I got more brains than you've got teeth.
Can I help you, sir?
I need a ticket.
Where to?
Out of here.
But, in particular?
I . . . Mexico. You got a bus that goes to Mexico? That's where I have to go.
Where in Mexico would you like--
We have a bus to Mexico. Arrives in two hours. Have to make a couple of connections, but it will get you across the border.
How much.
One way, or round trip?
One way.
Twenty-seven, fifty. That's all I got.
The ticket is thirty dollars.
I bought a beer. That was two- fifty. I bought a beer, otherwise I would have thirty.
I'm sorry, sir. It's thirty dollars for the ticket.
Please, you don't understand. I have to get out of here. They're going to come looking for me. They're going to kill me. If I can't get this ticket then I'm going to have to do things to get out of here. I don't want to hurt anybody, I just want to leave.
You want somethin'?
You Harlin?
Nope. Darrell.
Harlin around?
Will he be back soon?
Doubt it. He's dead. The Look Out's a cemetery.
You own this place?
Yep.
Then why do you call it Harlin's?
'Cause Harlin used to own it.
But he's dead.
You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is--
That'll make five in a row. Never seen it so hot. Sometimes I don't even want to get out of bed. I'd rather just lay there and try to catch a breeze. I was in Mexico this one time--
It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
I know it's busted. What did I just tell you?
Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time. Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
Somewhere else? Mister somewhere else is fifty miles from here. How you planning on getting it there? You gonna push this heap yourself?
Hey!
Yeah, I can fix it. Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
How much time?
Time.
What time is it now?
Twenty-after-ten.
Jesus. Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
Accident.
You got to be more careful. I remember one time--
Yeah, right. Someplace in this dust bowl I can get something to drink?
Truck stop up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
I'll be back in a couple of hours. And be careful with her, will you?
Hey.
Hey, your . . . what the hell happened to you.
Nothing.
Don't look like nothing.
Just banged my head. It was an accident.
Look, I just want to pick up my car.
She's all yours. Put a new hose in it, and she runs like a dream now.
How much?
Well . . . parts, labor . . . let's call it a hundred-fifty bucks.
How much!?
Hundred-fifty.
To replace a God damn radiator hose!?
A God damn radiator hose in a sixty- four-and-a-half Mustang. You know how long it took me to find that hose?
About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
That's about an hour and a half longer than I usually spend looking for parts. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy. What you expect but fancy damn prices?
That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
That's not just a Ford, that's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang.
What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
I don't know, but it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through. Now you owe me a hundred-fifty dollars.
It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
Then you ain't gonna have the car.
Then you're only a hundred-forty- five in the hole. Now why don't you just take your Visa Express Silver Card, call Karl Malden and have him send you the money lickity split.
I don't have a credit card. They took my wallet.
Now that's too bad. I sure hope you know how to wash dishes or shovel shit 'cause you're gonna have to work this one off.
You son of a bitch!
Hey there. I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back. You don't look so good.
Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
You've been there?
Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog. Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
You believe that?
You think bad, and bad is what you get.
That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
No charge.
Listen, Darrell, about that hundred- fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll--
Two-hundred.
What?
It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
You said this morning the hose was going to run me one-fifty.
Yep. For the hose. But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
Yeah, but it was shot.
I didn't tell you to do it! You can't just do unauthorized work.
Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? I can't do unauthorized work. I suppose I can just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket. Then you get in an accident and get killed. Or worse. Who they gonna blame then? They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
What reputation? You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumble weed hick.
Is that an insult? Are you insulting me.
Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
Take it. As soon as I get my money. Fifty dollars for an almost new gasket. You don't know what kind of a deal you're getting.
I'm taking my car, and I'm taking it now!
No!
What's the matter? The fight gone out of you? I'm just gonna smash a headlight. Maybe two.
Please, just leave the car alone.
Goddamn you! You son of a bitch!
What you want?
Open up!
We're closed. Come back in the morning.
It is morning.
What the hell . . . oh it's you. Might've figured. What do you want?
I want my car.
Two-hundred dollars in hundred- dollar bills. And this morning you was broke.
What's it to you?
I don't want no dirty money. I run an honest business.
Now that you're so well off, can I get you something, Hon?
You got beer?
What would a truck stop be without beer?
Let me have a Beck's.
We ain't got no Beck's.
Kirin?
No, we ain't got no Kirin. We got Miller.
Genuine Draft?
No. We got Miller. Regular Miller. You want it, or don't you?
Shasta! Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that? Sorry about that, hon. Enjoy your beer, and try to have a nice day.
What was that all about?
You know how that Toby is. Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
More like Jenny is after every man she sees.
Poor thing. Is she all right?
Lord! Put the baby in the icebox. Killed the poor thing.
Let me get your change.
Ned! Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
I think I burned my gun hand!
That yours, Mrs. McKenna?
Yes. Yes it is.
Taking a little trip?
I had a fight with Jake. I . . . I just wanted to get away for awhile. Mr. Stewart was kind enough to take me as far as Montrose. I'm going to take a bus to my sister's. I thought I'd stay with her for a few days.
Is that right? Can't say as I blame you for wanting to head out for a bit. I know I've had my fill of this town. Sixteen years I've been the law and order here. So long I forgot why I ever wanted the job in the first place. Help people, I guess. Keep the peace. Problem is there's so much peace around here
I could do that. 'Course we'd have to go back into town. There'd be a whole crowd of people around when the trunk was opened. A whole crowd of witnesses. That wouldn't be too pretty, now would it?
Is that the way you want it, boy? A bullet in the head in the middle of the desert? Ends like this and you won't be able to spend a dime of that blood money.
For the love of God would you two give it a rest? Lord almighty. In all my years I have never seen anything so pathetic. How far did you think you were going to get with this? Neither one of you can wait to slit the others throat. Now use what little smarts you got. If I was going to bust you I wouldn't
What do you want?
. . .at the very least. I know there was more than thirty-thousand dollars. Now, how much did you get?
Don't tell him anything. He can't do this.
There you go, Mrs. McKenna. Just put it in there.
That wasn't so bad. What's thirty- some-thousand to rich folks like you? It didn't hurt a bit.
Jake. I thought you would be at work, dear.
Who was that on the phone?
Wrong number.
I put up new drapes, Jake.
I know. I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
You never said anything. About the drapes.
They look nice.
They look nice.
I picked them out for you, Jake. I thought you would like the colors.
What the hell you looking at, girl?
What's the matter?
You didn't hear something?
How could I? I was sleeping.
There's someone in the house.
I don't hear anything. You were dreaming. Or maybe the wind blew something over.
Jake, what is that?
What does it look like?
Oh my God, Jake, no. If it is someone they'll go away. Or call the police. Don't go out there.
What are you afraid of? I'm the one's got the gun. Stay here.
Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
I'm just going to my car.
My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
My name is John. Now I'm not a stranger anymore. See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
Do you have to call me that?
I don't know your real name.
Maybe I don't want you to.
Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
My cup runneth over, beauti--
It's Grace.
Jesus.
You sure you can manage?
I got it.
No, I've got it.
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
Wasn't nothing.
Oh, this isn't my car. It's down a ways. I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy. I could drive up.
It's nothing. Really.
I just got tired of looking at the old drapes. Had them long as I can remember.
That a fact?
I saw these in the Penny's catalog, and I just knew I had to have them. You ever seen something and just knew you had to have it?
Yes, I have.
'Course they cost a little more than I should really be spending. But, damn it, I don't hardly ever do anything nice for myself. I deserve nice things.
Thank you, John.
You're welcome, Grace.
You're not from around here, are you?
Why you say that? Just because I help a lady with her package?
You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
I just drove in this morning.
Drove into Sierra? What for?
Didn't have a choice. My car overheated up the road.
Good luck it didn't happen a few miles back. Maybe they never would have found you. Day like today you'd be dead for sure.
Yeah, my luck. I get to be stuck out here in this hole in the desert.
Least you can leave.
Not until my car's fixed. I don't know how long that's going to take.
Where you coming from?
All over. Chicago, Miami, Detroit. Just lately Albuquerque.
You've been around.
I guess I've got wander in my blood.
Where you headed?
I don't know. I have to make a stop in Vegas. Business to finish. Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara. I might be able to pick up some work there.
You just travel around, no direction, no steady work. You must like taking chances.
If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
What happens if you lose?
I pack up and go somewhere else.
Somewhere else. I've never been anywhere else. Just once. Years ago. Went to the state fair. It was nice, but it wasn't nothing.
That's good. Cools you right off. I saw you watching me.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
I didn't say it bothered me.
Did you like it; me watching you?
I guess. I've got an ego same as any man.
Nice place you got here.
Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
I guess it must.
What do you do anyway?
A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
Where'd you learn to do that?
From my father. He was the tribe's Shaman.
A medicine man?
Those are white words, not ours.
Nice house for a Shaman's daughter. You must be good.
My face tell you all that?
It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. What is it you want?
There. All done. Lift me down.
What?
You can let go of me now. I'm safe. How do they look.
Like you.
Beautiful?
Like they're made of polyester.
I like them. I was sick of looking at this room. I think they add a little life.
No more drapes to hang. Now what should we do?
I have ideas.
All right, Grace. No more games.
Games?
You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
I think I can find my own way back to into town.
Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
You never did answer my question.
Still playing?
That's not an answer. What is it you want?
You know what I want.
Damn it, Grace! Tell him.
Doesn't the heat bother you?
Yeah, but I like the sun. I grew up on a reservation. The sun, the desert; they were like a religion to us. Jake's the same way. He loves the desert. I guess we're alike that way. That's about the only way.
You love him?
No.
Did you ever?
Depends on what you call love. When I was growing up I had nothing. I learned to want everything. I wanted more than Sierra anyway. Jake was my ticket. He's not much; he's older than me, different than me, but he's got more money than half this town put together. I courted him. I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled
I'm guessing no.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
And I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
All this nothing? I've spent my life in this stinking desert. It doesn't get to Jake like it got to me. He doesn't mind being out here. He doesn't mind being nothing but a land broker. Big fish in a small pond, he says. More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole.
You could just leave him.
I don't know how.
You just walk away.
It's not that easy. Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please. I can't. I don't want to be alone. I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
Is that so bad? It's not like I wouldn't try to make him happy. For awhile, anyway. I mean, I would . . . do things for him. I guess I'm no good that way. I guess I tried to sucker you along like that. Do you hate me for it? I wouldn't blame you if you did. But maybe it's like you said:
How far is it to California?
From here? I don't know. Far. Far enough.
Have you ever been there before?
Yeah.
Is it pretty?
Beautiful. Beautiful beaches. Blue water and clear skies as far as you can see.
Take me with you.
I can't.
Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
Grace, I can't. I can't even get out of here myself. I need a hundred-fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic.
I know where we could get the money. A lot more than one-hundred-fifty dollars.
Where?
Jake.
You think Jake's going to give me money just so I can take you out of here?
He doesn't give it to us. We take it.
From?
He's got money. In a floor safe in the living room. I've never seen it, but he talks about it all the time. More like brags. He loves his money. Wouldn't think of spending some of it on me.
You live pretty good.
Yeah, a bird in a gilded cage.
How much money has he got?
Near as I can figure must be about a hundred-thousand.
One-hundred-thousand!? That son-of- a-bitch lied to me.
Lied? What do you mean?
I . . . nothing. Just something he said. So if the money's in a safe we'd have to get the combination--
It's not a combination lock. It takes a key. He keeps it on him all the time. I mean all the time. It scratches up against me when we do it.
If the key's on him, to get the key we'd have to . . .
John? John where are you going?
I think this heat is making me crazy. I was crazy to come back here, I'm crazy for listening to anyone in this town, and I'd sure as hell be crazy if I spent another minute in this place.
John, please--
I don't know what I was thinking, but I can't do it.
What are you talking about?
Kill someone. I can't do it.
Shit!
It's not like he's a young man. He's had time to live.
I thought you would be on your way to Vegas by now. Is there something you wanted?
I wanted to talk.
I don't think we have anything to talk about.
What about us?
There is no us, remember?
Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace.
I've thought about you every second since I left. I can still taste you on my lips.
Stop it.
Why? Am I making you hot, or does the truth scare you?
Because I know you're full of shit.
I mean it, Grace. I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
I thought you couldn't leave. I thought you couldn't get your car.
I could if I had Jake's money.
Is that what changed your mind? The money?
I don't give a damn about the money. I want you, and I want to get us out of this shithole. There's only one way to do that.
Are you sure? About me, I mean?
I came back for you; this morning I came back. Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want.
The only reason I stormed off is because you sort of spooked me talking about Jake. But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got to get the money, baby. We get the money, I get the car, then we get the hell out.
You said you couldn't kill anybody.
Grace . . . Grace?
Why the hell didn't you do anything?
What was I supposed to do?
Where's the safe?
I don't know.
You don't know? Jesus Christ! Don't you think you should have found out before we killed him?
I'm not sure where it is. Not exactly. I never saw it. I just heard him talk about it.
Oh, that's great. We killed Jake because you heard him talk about some money that you've never seen. That's fucking brilliant!
Nothing. There's no safe under here.
There has to be!
It's got to be here. I heard him talk about it. He bragged about it. Six steps out, three left.
This is good. This is real good. This is so good they might not even charge us with murder when they catch us. They'll probably just lock us up for being idiots.
If it isn't here, why would he wear that stupid key?
You're calling Jake stupid? You!?
There's easily a hundred-thousand in there. More than that.
If you want.
Let's go in the bedroom.
Let's do it here.
What about him?
You got a suitcase?
Never needed one. I've never been anywhere. I've got a backpack.
Get it, and put the money in it. Pack up anything else you want to take with you.
Where are you going?
To get my car.
Wait. What about . . . him?
John!? What the hell's the matter with you?
I . . . nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell . . . that's all.
I got the money all packed. I put the jeep in the garage. Figure that way people will think maybe me and Jake went away. Might buy us some time.
Yeah. Good thinking.
Had push it in. Funny thing; it wouldn't start.
John . . .?
Sheriff Potter, please. I can't go to jail. I wanted no part of it.
One-hundred-thousand dollars. A little more.
Damn you! What did you do that for? He can't prove anything.
That's all talk. He's got nothing on us. He let you kill Jake.
Not me. Us.
It doesn't matter. He was there and he let it happen. He can't take us in.
Give him the money.
What?
You heard me. Count it out.
He can't prove anything, John. He can't turn us in.
I shot him.
You killed him!
He was going to take the money.
Thirty-thousand, that's all. We would have been free and clear. You didn't have to kill him.
You're crazy, you know that!? You're fucked up!?
Jesus, Grace. Did you have to kill him?
He was going to--
I know. He was to take the fucking money.
You're tense. What are you all uptight about?
Is that the kind of girl you think I am? What can I do to make you relax?
Well, nothing.
Now what?
Now we dump Jake, split the money, then you're on your own.
But you said we could be together.
Are you kidding? I'm not going down with you for killing a cop.
What difference does it make? You killed Jake.
<u>We</u> killed Jake. And it's a big difference. You kill an old man, that's one thing. Nobody cares about an old man. You kill a cop and they never stop looking for you. Never.
He was a crooked bastard. He would have killed us.
The police don't know that. And it's going to be hard to explain it to them with a noose around your neck. I'll take you as far as California. If we can even make that. After that I'm cutting you loose.
But I want to say with you,
Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can try and sell me out again? You take your hald of the money and run. You might want to try Mexico. With all that dough you'll live like a queen.
I don't want to go to Mexico, John. I want to be with you. Don't you think I care about you?
John!
Are you all right?
I think I busted my leg.
I can't make it. Grace? Grace!?
I'm here.
Grace, listen to me. In the trunk of my car is a rope. It should reach down here. Got get it, throw it down and I'll climb up.
John! Can you hear me? Are you still there?
Where the hell am I going to go?
John, throw me the keys.
What for?
The trunk. It's locked.
It's not locked. I left it open when I took out Jake's body.
It's . . . it's locked.
You closed it, didn't you, Grace?
I was going to back the car to the ridge and pull you up.
Bullshit, Grace. You were going to drive off and leave me here.
No. I swear it.
And you're not one to lie, are you?
Throw me the keys and I'll pull you up.
John, if you don't throw me the keys, then I'll just walk away. Walk away and leave you here.
Walk to where? We're fifty miles to the nearest town. It's going to be over one-hundred degrees today. How far do you think you're going to get?
Someone will find me.
Yeah, they'll find you. Dried up and twice dead.
You idiot! You'll kill us both!
At least I'll have company when I die. Ain't that right, Jake?
For Christ's sake, John! Throw me the keys!
What do you say, Jake? Should we trust her? No? I didn't think so.
Who the hell are you?
I'm her husband.
Husband . . .?
Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
I . . I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
A lot that means.
I have half a mind to--
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
You've got to be--
Yeah, I know. More careful.
I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
Jake McKenna. That's a solid name.
I'm a solid man.
John Stewart.
What brings you to Sierra?
My car overheated. I pulled in to have it fixed.
Where you headed?
I've got to make a stop in Vegas, then I'm heading to Santa Barbara.
Live there?
Got work. I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
You a sailor man? That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that. Just sail away until all he was was a memory. I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
I hope so. Listen, Mr. McKenna, about your wife: If I had known she was married--
It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
Wait a second--
Hey!
She does at that. I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect? But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her. What are you to do, eh? Women.
I bet she led you on good, didn't she? Taking you up to the house with that smile of hers. Bet she wiggled her ass in your face more than once. Then me busting in like some wild bear. Bet you had a fire going under you.
Like you don't know.
Would you?
Would I what?
Why would I kill her?
I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
How do you know if you've never tried?
Good Lord. What happened to you?
Just ran into a little trouble.
Another accident? You've really got to be more careful. Can I get you a drink?
No.
Hungry?
No.
I'm surprised to see you. I thought you'd be halfway to Vegas by now.
I had a problem getting my car back.
Nice office you've got.
I do all right. Real estate isn't a bad game such as it is around here. The trick is to underestimate the price when you buy it, and overvalue when you sell. You can turn a few dollars that way.
Now what can I do for you?
I was hoping we could talk.
Talk? About what?
About things. About your wife.
Sweet Grace? What about her?
You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife. Fifty-thousand dollars.
I do.
You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
I did?
Don't play simple with me, Jake. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
I'm not rambling.
You're talking like a mad man.
You're the one who brought it up. This morning. In your car.
That was just loose talk. I don't want anybody dead.
Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
You meant it.
What makes you say that?
Because I think you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
And what does that make you?
Let's say I do want her dead. What is it you want? This morning you weren't a killer.
This morning I didn't know how badly I'd want to get out of this fucking town.
And for that you'd kill Grace?
For that I'd kill a nun on Easter Sunday.
Just to get out of here? That doesn't seem much for a murder.
How do you put a price on murder?
I put it at fifty-thousand dollars, minus your cut, of course. Which is?
Make it twenty.
Twenty-thousand? I don't have that kind of money. I won't get the insurance until months after she's dead. I don't imagine you'll want to be around after poor Grace's demise. Twenty-thousand; that's more money than I could ever get my hands on.
How much could you get?
Maybe . . . ten-thousand. And that's a maybe.
I need thirteen.
That's a bit much.
You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
I'm not your boy, Jake. I don't like you, and I don't like what you are. I got no choice but to do business with you. This is just a nasty little marriage of convenience.
Don't say that. I had a marriage of convenience with Grace, and look where that's lead. Well, looks like we got ourselves a pact.
Do we shake hands?
I guess I might as well get this done with.
The sooner it's over, the sooner you're on your way. Now listen to me: It's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good. I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
What should I do?
How the hell should I know? I've never had a wife killed before. I guess I should have hired a professional.
You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
I went to your place. We talked, just like you told me. We drove out into the desert . . .
Is the job done?
No.
You didn't kill her?
The time wasn't right.
You're out in the desert, the middle of nowhere with no one around for miles, and you say the time wasn't right? What's the matter? You were hoping to get it on home video? A keepsake for the grandkids. Thank God I waited, or I never would have gotten it on tape.
You know what I mean.
I know all right. I know you're just enough of a shit to have a go at bedding a man's wife. You've probably bagged a few at that. You'd probably lie, cheat and steal without thinking twice. From that you'd just turn and walk away. But to kill; to get that blood on your hands. You can't wash that off. You'd be a marked
You know so much about killing why don't you do it yourself?
I guess I have what you'd call a love-hate relationship with Grace.
You love her, but you hate her?
I hate loving her. I hate the kind of her person she is. I hate having to tolerate the little games she plays. I hate letting her use me. But I love her too much to do otherwise. And I certainly love her too much to kill her. I couldn't stand to watch her eyes roll back in her head as she sucks her
Shut up.
Came close this time and it scares you.
Drop it, Jake.
And next time, next time somebody is going to get dead.
Jake, how much were you going to pay me to do the job?
Thirteen-thousand dollars. Had you done it. Isn't that what we agreed on?
You think that's a lot of money?
All I have in the world.
Maybe not this time, but somebody's going to get dead around you.
Yeah, well, me too.
Trouble with the car again?
You could say. I don't even have it yet.
Darrell giving you problems?
He did more work on the car. He wants fifty bucks extra for it.
Fifty dollars more. That's a lot of money when you don't have a dime. And where'd you plan on getting the money from? Maybe you thought you'd pay your friend Jake McKenna a visit.
It's not like that.
Maybe you heard old Jake's got some money stashed away and you thought you'd help yourself to a little.
Wait a minute. Just listen to me--
You thought you'd come in here in the middle of the night and wham! Wail off and clock old Jake McKenna and turn his brains into wall paper.
Jake--
And then with Jake out of the way you could borrow two-hundred dollars. Or maybe two-thousand. Or twenty-thousand. Who's to stop you? Not Jake McKenna, 'cause old Jake would be dead.
That's not the reason I'm here. I swear it.
There's another reason? It better be good.
I came for Grace.
You came to take my wife from me?
I came to kill her.
Liar.
It's the truth, Jake.
That's a thick change of heart.
Yeah, well, a couple of hours ago I just about killed some guy over a girl. Not for money, for a girl. And she was just going to stand there and let it happen, or let him kill me. Same way Grace played us this morning. I don't like that, Jake. Not twice in one day. And maybe I'm so pissed I'd twist the
That's a lot of talk. A whole lot of talk.
I'm curious about something. I'm wondering just how it is you happen to know where the bedroom's at.
Wh . . . what are you talking about?
This morning when I came in on you and Grace, you swore you hadn't so much as been near the bedroom. Now you make straight for it.
Come on, Jake--
Don't Jake me, boy! It's a big house. Odd that you would know your way, except maybe you've been in the bedroom before. Maybe with Grace to keep you company.
Nothing happened with me and Grace this morning.
Then maybe this afternoon. When I sent you to kill my wife you ended up sexing her instead.
Christ, Jake, please--
Is that what happened? Did you even make it out to the desert, or did you just ply the afternoon between my sheets?
You're not talking sense.
Sense? If I had any sense I would have killed you this morning and been done with it.
What are you . . . you can't . . . you can't kill me.
A drifter, a loner, a trouble maker like you? Just passing through town, need money so he busts in on an, old man. Only this old man's got himself an automatic, and he knows how to use it. A man's got to protect his home. His wife. You're dead, boy, and your own mother wouldn't convict me.
What difference does it make if I slept with her. You don't care about Grace.
You're right. I don't give a damn about her. But to fuck a man's wife behind his back? That just makes a fool out of him. I don't like being made a fool of.
I don't blame you. What man would? I admit it, okay? I came back here and I made it with Grace. But if you kill me you're making a big mistake.
Not from where I stand.
It's not me you have to worry about. It's her. She wants you dead, Jake. She wants you dead and she wants your money.
What are you babbling about?
You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
You know what kind of woman Grace is. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Sierra. What makes you think when you were planning on killing her she wasn't doing the same for you? What's she to you, Jake; a woman who would have you dead? Let me kill her. All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out
Two-hundred dollars.
I asked you a question.
Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
Honest, Toby. I just asked him for a quarter for the jukebox.
I want to stay.
Toby! Toby Tyler, leave him alone!
Hey, Mister. You gotta quarter?
What?
What happened to your hand?
Accident, and yeah, I got to be more careful.
Got any requests?
That country shit all sounds the same to me.
You like Patsy Cline? I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
She's dead.
Gee, that's sad. Don't that make you sad?
I've had time to get over it.
You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
Oz.
You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that one movie.
Hey, Mister. Mister. I just. . . I just wanted to thank you.
For what?
For defending my honor this afternoon.
I hate to bust your bubble, but I wasn't defending you.
But you was going to fight for me.
I wasn't going to fight for you. I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you. If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him. You're not going to get much better in this town.
That's what I thought until you came riding in. I saw your car over at the gas station. It's cool. Want to take me for a ride? Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
How old are you?
Eighteen. Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
You're too late, Toby. We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
What the hell are you talking about?
Toby Tyler, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
Don't be afraid of him none. I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
I wasn't doing anything.
That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
You expect me to believe that?
I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
Mister, I'm calling you out.
You're fucked.
You know who I am? Toby N. Tyler. My friends call me TNT. You know why?
They're not very imaginative?
'Cause I'm just like dynamite. And when I go off somebody gets hurt.
Fine. I was making time with your girl. Now I'm all scared, and I'll never make that mistake again. Now go away.
Not before I settle with you.
Christ, I don't believe this.
Stand up.
I wasn't hitting on your girl!
Mister!
That's right, Mister. You better be afraid. I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen. Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
Oh, that tears it, Mister. I'm gonna bust you up but good. I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then . . . and then bust those pieces up, and then . . . and then spread them all around. That's what I'm gonna do. You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister. I'm crazy. I'm psycho crazy.
Get up, Mister! Don't ever let it be said Toby Tyler beat the living shit out of someone without giving them a fair chance.
What the hell are you doing? Are you crazy?
I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm beating you up.
You stupid punk! You don't even know what you're fighting over!
Now, what's this?
Give it to me!
Mexico? You're going to Mexico?
I'm leaving. You never have to see me again. Just please, give me the ticket!
Nooo!
John, what a surprise. I expected to be seeing you, not talking to you over the phone.
That's a shame, John. A real shame.
You don't know the how, Mr. Vesci. And that's not the half of it. I've got your money, and I go into this little grocery store to get something to eat and it gets robbed.
Let me guess. This robber; he gets your money.
No. He gets shot by the old lady.
The old lady?
With a shotgun. It kills him, and it shreads the money. I mean, what are the odds?
You're the gambler. You tell me.
Let me get this straight: You owe me thirteen-thousand dollars, you call me - collect - then ask me to wire you one-hundred-fifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
A hundred-forty-five really.
Do you understand me you little fuck?
Yes, Mr. Vesci.
Fucking kid. And look at you; breaking fucking pencils. You're a Neanderthal.
Kids.
Yeah. What are you going to do? That Toby's a hot head.
He is at that. No so much a fault of his own. Poor boy had quite a trauma as a child.
What happened?
His father worked in a strip mine north of here. Toby's school class went up to the mine one day. School takes field trips up there every year. Big day for the kids when they can see ore tore up out of the ground. Anyway, on this particular day Toby's dad up and falls into the machinery.
Jesus!
Yep. Tore him up good and spat out little, refined pieces of him. Nothing like the embarrassment of having your father refined in front of your classmates to put the anger in a young man.
I guess.
Saw you at the truck stop this morning. You're not from around here.
No, sir. And I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
Just curious. That's a nasty cut you've got.
Not as bad as it looks.
There was a young man over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around by one of the robbers.
Wouldn't know anything about it.
That's too bad. I was hoping you were there. Maybe you could help us catch the guy who got away. Or maybe you could explain about all that money that got tore up when Jamilla shot that biker.
Wish I could help, Sheriff. But if you'll excuse me I'm going over to Harlin's to pick up my car. Then I'm getting the hell out of this place.
Stay as long as you like, son. No rush.
Nice night for a drive. Morning really. I guess that's about the only way to keep cool; riding around with the top down on a fancy convertible in the first hours of the day.
Not taking a drive, Sheriff. Heading out of town.
Suppose you've had all you can of Sierra. What with that ruckus you had with Toby. Oh yes, I heard all about that.
Sheriff, he didn't give me any choice. If I hadn't defended myself- -
Just cool down, son. I ain't accusing you of anything. Serves Toby right to get his ass whooped. If you hadn't done it, somebody else would've.
Is there a problem up the road, Sheriff?
Why don't you step out of the car, son?
I don't understand what the--
Just step from the car. Nice and slow.
Now step around to the back of the car and open the trunk for me.
What for?
I think you might just want to do as I say.
There's nothing in the trunk, Sheriff.
You bitch! You were in on it froom the start!
Shut up! The both of you. Ain't neither one of you too smart. Especially you, boy. Don't you think I had my eye on you since first you rolled into town? You smell like trouble. Stink of it like a ripe cesspool.
I didn't do anything.
That's what this is all about? A shakedown? You picked the wrong people. We don't have any money.
What'd you think, boy? That you were the first man to drift through this town she came on to? Not by a long shot. You're just the most gullible. How much did you get?
Thirty-thousand dollars.
Nobody's going to hang. We're all gonna walk away with a little something. I ain't a greedy man. And, hell, you did all the work. One-hundred-thousand dollars. Split that three ways and it comes out to about thirty-three thousand. Give or take.
Got any cold soda?
Eh?
Soda. You got any soda?
Hablar slowly, por favor. My ingles no es bien.
I call the policia.
No police.
But, Senor--
No police! Wait until I'm gone.
Senor, you need a doctor.
Hey! You there!
You want something, old man?
Don't call me old man. Ain't you got no respect, boy?
You want something?
Yeah I want something. I want you to run over to that machine and get me a pop.
You can't do that yourself?
Hell no, I can't do that myself. I'm blind. Can't you see that?
I'm sorry, I didn't--
What'd you think I was doing out here with these glasses on? Sunnin' myself?
I don't know. I thought you were keeping the sun out of your eyes.
I ain't got no eyes. You want to see?
Christ no!
Lost my eyes in Vyee-et-nam. Lost them fighting the commies. Fought the war and lost my eyes fightin' the commies just so you can come around here and make fun of me.
I said I was sorry.
Don't be sorry. Just run over there and get me my pop before I die of thirst.
Yeah, sure. You got change?
Change? You want my change? I fought the war and lost my eyes just so I could give you my change?
Don't forget to open it for me. I can't be opening my own bottle.
I think you'd better give your pooch a sip. He looks sick.
Oh, Jesus.
I hope you wasn't pettin' him none, was you?
What the hell are you keeping a dead dog around for?
He's only just dead. What was I supposed to do with him? I can't take him away anywhere. And nobody wants to take him for me. Do you?
Hell no!
You sure seen a lot for a blind man.
Just 'cause I ain't got eyes doesn't mean I can't see.
Maybe I do.
Or maybe you just think you do. Just another small town. One guy chasing you. You go big town. Just gonna have four guys after you instead. Kiss kissy kiss. It gets down to one thing -- are you a human being or are you one of those hungry ghosts out there never satisfied with nothing? Cause you gotta remember you can run just
I think I've heard that before.
What do you want for free?
You sure got a lot of philosophy, old man.
Seems like I do but only cause end of the day we're all eyes in the same head. And everything is everything.
What?
Cocksucker motherfucker! Cops. I hear you. Always sneaking around. Thinks I can't see him. Well he's right. Motherfucker. But that ain't mean I don't know what's going on around here. They're all cursed. Yes sir.
Who's cursed?
I thought you said you lost your eyes in the war?
So now you're going to tell me where I lost my eyes. You don't think I know where I lost my eyes? I was there when I lost them. I lost them in the war. The war in the joint. There's always wars in the joint. Cause I was a code talker in the joint and in the war too. Mmmm, nothing like the
Musta been some bad ass nuclear tests here in the 50's. This town's all inbreeding.
Well, people gotta get by somehow. That's the curse. The mines done it. All that uranium, plutonium, fuffonium, fuckononium, assononium, all that "om"! Everybody's got a mother. You don't rip up your mother. You don't rip up the Earth and take everything out. It's like the Cracker Jack box says, "the more you eat, the more you want...."...
...But ain't you got a little something for the infirm?
I'm a little short Pops. I'll catch you next time.
Ain't over yet. Night is part of day; separate, but equal. Night is when you let your guard down; when you see things in the shadows and hear things in the dark.
Difference between you and me, old man, is I see the glass half full, you see it half empty.
Night is when you want to sleep, but the dry heat keeps you tossin' and turnin'. It's when you wish the sun was bakin' high in the sky so you could see what it is you're afraid of.
You afraid of the dark?
Afraid of it? Boy, I live in the dark. All cause of a woman who made me this way. People are afraid of what they can't see. I can't see nuthin', so it's all the same to me. Kiss from a beautiful woman, kissy kissy kiss, a lick from a dog, slurp, slurp, the kiss of death . It's all the same to me.
So, we're all just floating along like twigs in a stream, so enjoy the ride. Is that it?
More or less.
Not this twig, friend. I got plans.
Nothing makes the Great Spirit laugh harder than a man's plans. We all got plans. I planned on seeing all my life. I know you didn't plan on straying into town.
No and I don't plan on sticking around either.
Well, don't say I didn't warn you when things go your way.
Time's up. Any last words of wisdom?
You <u>are</u> crazy, you know. Be seeing you, old man.
I wasn't doing anything.
That's not the way it looked to me. Looked to me like you was trying to make time with her.
Then maybe you should've. Look, pal, I wasn't making a play for your girl.
You expect me to believe that?
I don't care what you believe as long as you leave me alone.
Mister, I'm calling you out.
Let's see...they're not very imaginative?
'Cause I'm just like dynamite. And when I go off, somebody gets hurt.
Fine. I was making time with your girl. Now I'm scared to death and I learned my lesson. Now can you go away?
Not before I settle with you, chickenshit!
Christ, I don't believe this!
Stand up.
I wasn't hitting on your girl!
Mister!
That's right, Mister. You better be afraid. I told you it wasn't over, but you didn't listen. Now I find you sneakin' around with my girl behind my back.
Oh, that tears it, Mister. I'm gonna bust you up but good. I'm gonna bust you into a million pieces and then ... and then bust those pieces up, and then ... and then spread them all around. That's what I'm gonna do. You don't know what you're dealing with, Mister. I'm crazy. I'm psycho crazy.
I'm doing what any man would do if he'd been offended. I'm stompin' your ass.
You idiot! You don't even know what you're fighting over!
Now, what's this?
Give it to me!
Mexico? You going to Mexico?
I'm leaving. You never have to see me again. Just please, give me the ticket!
Who the hell is this!?
Who the hell are you?
Now who the hell are you, and it better be good, or God help me I'll break you in half.
Easy, chief. I... I was helping your wife. I met her in town. She needed a hand with her drapes. That's all.
Didn't much look like you were hanging drapes.
I swear to you that's all that happened. I haven't so much as set foot in your bedroom.
A lot that means.
You can't just walk in here and walk out, you sonufabitch! I'm gonna tear you a new asshole!
You broke my nose!
What the fuck do you want?
After you huffed off, Grace lied so bad, I got so pissed off, I pulled down her pants to paddle her ass raw and finger-fucked it instead. Sorry I lost my cool like that. It's a funny thing, women.
Yeah...
Say, what happened to your hand?
Accident.
You've got to be--
Yeah, I know. More careful.
I guess we've never been introduced proper. Jake McKenna.
That's a solid name.
I'm a solid man.
Bobby Cooper.
"Bobby Cooper." What brings you to Superior, Coop?
An overheated car.
Oh? Darrell taking good care of you?
California...
Live there?
Got work. I know a man who's got a boat. Wants me to sail it for him.
You a sailor man? That'd be the life. Drive across the country, step on a boat and just sail away. A man could pretty well disappear like that. Just sail away until all he was was a memory. I guess a little place like this would just be a dot on a map to you after awhile.
I hope so. Listen, McKenna about your wife: If I had known she was married--
It wouldn't have made a difference to you, now would it? Not a wit. Do you know why? Because you're a man without scruples.
Wait a second--
Hey!
She does at that. I knew when I married her she was a free spirit. A woman with her looks and a man my age; what was I to expect? But you see a woman like that in a town like this and you don't think, you do. So, I married her. What are you to do, eh? Women.
"You can't shoot 'em!" I like that. I bet she led you on good, didn't she? Taking you up to the house to hang drapes. Oh that's a good one. Bet she had you hard as a rock wiggling her ass in your face. I bet you just wanted to pull down her pants and hog her out. Then me busting in like some
Like you don't know.
Would you?
Would I what?
I've done a few things but I'm not a murderer, Mr. McKenna.
How do you know if you've never tried?
What can I do for you, lad?
I was hoping we could talk.
Talk? About what?
About things. About your wife.
Sweet Grace? What about her?
You said you had an insurance policy out on your wife. Fifty-thousand dollars.
I do.
You said you'd cut that up with the man who did her in.
I did?
Don't play simple with me, Jake. You're a betting man. You want me to spell it out for you? I'll kill Grace if you cut me in on the money.
Boy I think this heat's getting to you the way you're rambling on.
I'm not rambling.
You're talking like a madman.
Well then, I guess that qualifies me for citizenship in this town. You're the one brought it up. This morning. In your car.
Oh, that was just loose talk. Husband gettin' pissed off. I don't want anybody dead.
Bullshit. You wanted me to kill her.
A man doesn't always mean the things he says.
You meant it.
What makes you say that?
Because you're a slimy bastard who would have his wife killed just to get his hands on some money.
And what does that make you?
Well, I guess I have what you call a love-hate relationship with Grace.
You love her, but you hate her?
How much could you get?
Maybe ... ten-thousand. And that's a maybe.
I need thirteen.
That's a bit much.
You drive a hard bargain, but I had a feeling you were my boy when I met you.
I'm not your boy. I don't like you. I got no choice but to do business with you. Let's just call this a nasty little marriage of convenience.
If you can't trust the man you've hired to kill your wife ...? The thing is it's got to look like an accident; that's the thing. If it doesn't, then it's no good. I won't get a dime, and it's my neck that'll be on the chopping block while you're living it up somewhere.
How do you want it?
How the hell should I know? I've never had a wife killed before. Jesus Christ! <u>You</u> want this job, you don't know how to do this? I guess I should have hired a professional.
You want to do this yourself? I don't have to do this, you know.
Come to think of it, how 'bout some money upfront?
Oh yeah sure. Why don't I buy you a plane ticket right out of here while I'm at it. I <u>know you</u>... This is what you do: Go to the house to see her.
...I don't know. Tell her you had to see her. Tell her you don't care if she's married or not, you had to be with her. Sweet talk the woman. A young buck like you must be good at that. Then ... maybe shift the conversation. Get her thinking about that jeep of hers. She loves that thing. Maybe the only thing she does
Next time you'll do just fine.
That's my gun... That fucking Darrell!
I guess this is what they call "ironee"? Hunh?
It's not what you think, Jake.
No, but it don't matter anyway when you're lying there with your brains all over my carpet and I'm telling Sheriff Potter about this drifter, didn't have enough money to fix his car. And Darrell happened to find his gun, and through maybe this drifter heard old Jake got some money stashed away, and figgered he might try to break in and steal it!
Wait a minute. Just listen to me...
I came for Grace.
Shhh! Liar.
It's the truth, Jake.
That's a thick change of heart from this afternoon.
Maybe I don't like being played, like she played us today. Maybe I don't like that at all, Jake. I'm just pissed enough, maybe I'll rip the neck off my own grandmother.
You have a lot of talk in you, whole lot of talk.
How the hell did you know where the bedroom's at?
Come on, Jake --
You'd tell me anything to save your pathetic life.
You know what kind of woman Grace is, Jake. You know how badly she wants to get the fuck out of Superior. What's she to you, Jake; a woman who wants you dead? Let me kill her. All I want is two-hundred dollars to get out of here with.
Two-hundred dollars?
Hey, Mister. You gotta quarter for the juke?
What?
What happened to your hand?
I cut it shaving; I know, I gotta be more careful.
Got any requests?
That country shit all sounds the same to me.
You like Patsy Cline? I just love her. How come, I wonder, she don't put out no more new records.
Cause she's dead.
Gee, that's sad. Don't that make you sad?
I've had time to get over it.
You're not from around here, are you? Where you from?
Oz.
You ain't from Oz. Oz is in that movie.
Hey mister. Mister, I just... I just wanted to thank you.
For what?
For defending my honor this afternoon.
I hate to bust your bubble honey, but I wasn't defending you.
But you was going to fight for me.
I wasn't going to fight for you. I was just going to beat the shit out of your boyfriend.
He's not my boyfriend. I mean, I let him take me out and stuff, but I ain't spoken for. Not yet that is.
Get it through your head, little girl; I'm not going for you. If this Toby likes you, then if I were you I'd marry him. You're not going to get much better in this town.
That's what I thought until you came riding in. I saw your car over at the gas station. It's a cool car. Want to take me for a ride? Desert's kind of lonely this time of day.
How old are you?
Eighteen... Well, I'm gonna be eighteen in two years, but that don't mean you can't take me for a ride if you want.
You're too late, Toby. We're going to get in his fancy car and ride off and leave you behind.
What the hell are you talking about?
Toby Tucker, it don't matter to me if you beat him all up and knock out all his teeth and he's just drooling and bleeding all over hisself, 'cause we love each other and we gonna run off, and I'm gonna have his love child.
Don't be afraid of him none. I don't care what he does to you, we can still be together.
You Harlin?
Nope. Darrell.
Harlin around?
Will he be back soon?
Doubt it. He's dead. The Look Out's a cemetery.
You own this place?
Yep.
Then why do you call it Harlin's?
'Cause Harlin used to own it.
But he's dead.
You want to take a look at my car? I think the radiator hose is--
Look, Harlin, I've got places to be.
Darrell--
So?
It's your radiator hose. It's busted.
I know it's busted. What did I just tell you?
Well, you know so much why don't you just fix it yourself?
If I could do you think I'd be standing here wasting my time. Can you fix it, or do I have to go somewhere else?
Somewhere else? Mister, somewhere else is fifty miles from here. Only other gas station down in town closed 3 years ago when the mine got shut...
Okay, I'm stuck. You happy? Now can you fix it, or not?
Yeah, I can fix it.
Great!
Gotta run over to the yard and see if I can find a hose like this one, or close enough. Gonna take time.
How much time?
Twenty-after-ten.
Jesus. Twenty-after-ten and it must be ninety already.
Accident.
You got to be more careful. Hands is important. Let me show you something. When I was a kid, now I don't know if you can still see it, but I gashed my fingers in a lawnmower.
I'm very interested in this but is there someplace...
Diner up a piece. Not much, but us simple folk like it.
Hey.
Hey, your ... what the hell happened to you?
Nothing.
Don't look like nothing.
Just banged my head. It was an accident.
What the hell happened to my car?
Well ... you got your parts, you got your labour ... let's call it a hundred-fifty bucks.
How much!?
Hundred-fifty.
To replace a goddamn radiator hose!?
A goddamn radiator hose in a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang. You know how long it took me to find that hose?
About an hour and a half, because that's all the longer I've been gone.
Actually, it's been about three hours. You're the one thinks that car's so damn fancy. What you expect but fancy damn prices?
That's a Ford, not a Ferrari. You going to tell me no one else in this shit hole drives a Ford?
"That's not just a Ford, that's a sixty-four-and-a-half Mustang."
What's that got to do with the radiator hose?
I don't know, but "it's the reason I'm living here and you're just passing through." Now you owe me a hundred-fifty dollars.
It might as well be fifteen-hundred dollars, because I don't have the money.
Then you ain't gonna have the car.
Then you're only a hundred-forty-five in the hole. You can keep that dollar. Now why don't you just take your American Express Gold Card, and call that guy with the big schnooz on TV and have him send you the money lickity split.
I don't have a goddamn credit card.
...got no day, got no date. Probably ain't worth a duck's fart . This one here cost me $3.75 and it's got every doodad you can imagine. No sir I'll stick with this .
You son of a bitch! I'll have my lawyers shut you down.
You ain't got no credit card but you got a lawyer. Sweet talk me all you want. Didn't you read the sign? It says...
What sign? Fuck the sign. I want my car.
Hey there. I was beginnin' to think you wasn't comin' back... You don't look so good.
Yeah, well, I've been around the bend a bit.
One of those days you feel like you been runnin' in circles and you ain't no closer to where you tryin' to get than when you started?
You've been there?
Hell, I've had days I would gladly trade with a whippin' dog. Ain't much you can do when you feel like that 'cept tough it out.
You believe that?
You think bad, and bad is what you get.
That's a good piece of advice, Darrell.
No charge.
Listen, Darrell, about that hundred-fifty bucks for the car, as soon as I get where I'm going I swear I'll--
Two-hundred.
What?
It's going to cost you two-hundred dollars.
You said this morning the hose was going to run me one-fifty.
Yep. For the hose. But while you was gone I replaced a gasket. That's going to run you another fifty.
I didn't tell you to replace any gasket.
Yeah, but it was shot.
I don't give a fuck! I didn't tell you to do it! You can't just do unauthorized work.
Well, now, you just know all there is about bein' a mechanic, don't you? Didn't you read the sign.
What sign?
The goddamn sign on the wall. I can't do unauthorized work? What am I suppose to do? Just let you ride out of here with a bad gasket. Then you get in an accident and get killed. Or worse. Who they gonna blame then? They gonna blame me, and there goes my reputation.
What reputation? You're nothing but an ignorant, inbred, tumbleweed hick.
Is that an insult? Are you insulting me.
Listen you stupid fuck, I want my car.
No! Okay! Okay!
Look, Harlin.
Darrell.
What the fuck did you do to my trunk?
Well, that key's not gonna work. I had to pop the lock. You didn't leave me the trunk key.
And you had to go into the trunk, didn't you?
What you want?
Open up!
What the hell ... oh, it's you. Might've figgered. Listen I got a waitress coming over. What do you want?
I want my car.
Two-hundred dollars in hundred-dollar bills. And this morning you was broke.
That's none of your business. Get the keys.
I don't want no dirty money. I run an honest business.
All I got's a hundred, Darrell. You got change?
No.
Got any cold soda?
Eh?
Soda. You got any soda?
Hablar slowly, por favor. My ingles no es bien.
I call the sheriff.
Can I give you a hand, beautiful?
I'm just going to my car?
That's right on my way.
My mother told me never to accept offers from strangers.
My name is Bobby. Now I'm not a stranger anymore. See how easy it is for us to get to know each other, beautiful?
Do you have to call me that?
I don't know your real name.
Maybe, but if you didn't I think you would have kept on walking.
You're pretty full of yourself, aren't you?
I like that about me, beautiful.
It's Grace.
Jesus.
You sure you can manage?
I got it.
No, I've got it.
What happened to your hand?
Accident.
It's very nice of you to help me. That package is kind of heavy, and it's so hot.
Wasn't nothing.
Oh, this isn't my car. It's down a ways. I should have parked closer. I just didn't think it would be so heavy. I could drive up.
Thank you, Bobby.
You're welcome, Grace.
You're not from around here, are you?
Why you say that? Just because I help a lady with her package?
You don't have that dead look in your eyes like the only thing you live for is to get through the day.
I just drove in this morning.
Drove into Superior? What for?
Didn't have a choice. My car overheated up the road.
You're lucky you didn't break down in the desert. Day like today, you'd be dead in no time. When you leaving?
Not until my car's fixed. I don't know how long that's going to take.
Where you coming from?
All over. Chicago, Houston, Detroit. Just lately Dallas.
You've been around.
I guess I've got wander in my blood.
Where you headed?
I don't know. I have to make a stop in Vegas. Business to finish. Then maybe I'll head to Santa Barbara. I might be able to pick up some action there.
So, what is it you do, Mister...?
Cooper. Bobby Cooper. Oh you know, whatever pays best. Little bartending, used to teach tennis, played a little competition ... .
I never played tennis. You just travel around Bobby-- no direction, no steady work. You must like taking chances.
If you're going to gamble, might as well play for high stakes.
What happens when you lose?
That's good. Cools you right off. I saw you watching me.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to.
I didn't say it bothered me.
Did you like it; me watching you?
I guess. I've got an ego same as any man.
Nice place.
Must get kind of lonely for a woman living by herself in a big house.
I guess it must.
What do you do anyway?
A little of this, a little of that. Mostly I tell fortunes.
Where'd you learn to do that?
From my father. He was the tribe's shaman.
A medicine man?
Those are white words, not ours.
Nice house for a shaman's daughter. You must be good.
My face tell you all that?
It tells me what every face tells me. Everybody has a past, they have a pain, and they have something they want. What is it you want?
There. All done. Lift me down.
What?
You can let go of me now. I'm safe. How do they look?
Like you.
I like them. I was sick of looking at this room. I think they add a little life.
No more drapes to hang. Now what should we do?
I have an idea.
You flirt with me, then you run cold. You lead me on, then slap me down. I don't go for being jerked around.
I think I can find my own way back to into town.
Maybe I like to find out about a man first. Maybe I like to know what he's made of.
You never did answer my question.
Still playing?
That's not an answer. What is it you want?
You know what I want.
Yeah, well I said I was an idiot. Whatta you say we get out of here, take a drive somewhere, talk...
How do you know he's still not here?
Are there snakes out here?
They hear you comin'. They won't bother you. Just don't sneak up on 'em.
Doesn't the isolation bother you?
Yeah, but I like the sun. I grew up on a reservation. The sun, the desert; they like a religion to us. Jake's the same way. He loves the desert. I guess we're alike that way. That's about the only way.
You love him?
No.
Did you ever?
Depends on what you call love. I grew up on a reservation. A patch of desert in the middle of nowhere. That's where they stick Indians, Bobby. That's where they leave us to die. My brother killed himself when he was 19 cause he couldn't take it anymore. There's no hope there... Jake was my ticket out. Mom and me.
Is that why you're with him?
I let him think he was courtin' me, but I reeled him in like a fish on a line. I wanted him. I wanted what he could give me, and I would've done anything to get him. Is that love?
I'm guessing no.
Yeah, I guess you're right.
I take it things didn't much work out the way you planned.
All this nothing? It doesn't get to Jake like it gets to me. He says he don't mind being nothing but a big fish in a small pond. More like a little fish in a dried up watering hole.
You could leave him.
I don't know how.
Walk away.
It's not that easy. Maybe you can take chances; maybe you can wander around like some stray wherever you please. I can't. I don't want to be alone. I need to know I'm going to be taken care of.
You need a meal ticket is what you mean. Some guy you can latch onto just long enough for him to get you out of here.
What's the matter?...Grace?
Nothing.
Get out of town, Bobby, as quick as you can.
Grace, I've been fucked over too many times, by too many women. You're becoming the queen of hot and cold.
You'd never understand.
Try me.
It's just such a mess. With Jake I mean...
You mean the Shaman?
Yeah.
After he got his divorce, he forced me to marry him...but when I saw her body, I swore to her on my soul that some day I'd get Jake for what he did to her...
I'm sorry...
Yeah. What do you want. Life, right? Have you ever been to California?
Oh yeah. It's far, it's another world.
Is it pretty?
Please. I won't hang on you. As soon as we get there you can dump me. I don't care. I just want to get out of here.
Honey, baby, I <u>can't</u>. I can't even get out of here <u>myself</u>. Believe it or not, I need a lousy hundred and fifty bucks to get my car back from that crazy mechanic...
Darrell? You know he and Jake are...
You don't have any money put away, do you?
Jake never gives me more'n twenty bucks at a time, like a bird in a cage, he don't want me goin' anywhere...
Where?
Jake hides it. In a safe. In the floor. In the bedroom. He counts it. He loves to sit there and count it.
What do you mean?
In <u>cash</u>?
Oh yeah. There's nothing else with Jake. He don't trust banks. He keeps the money in the floor right under the bed. He loves it so much, he wouldn't think of spending any of it on me. I never seen it but I know he's got more than a hunnert thousand at least...
It takes a key. He keeps it on himself all the time. I mean <u>all the time</u>. It scratches up against me when we do it.
If the key's on him, how do we get the key?
I can't kill, Grace. I can't kill anybody.
I wanted to talk.
I don't think we have anything to talk about.
What about us?
There is no us, remember?
Except I can't get you out of my head, Grace.
Stop it.
Why? Am I making you hot, or does the truth scare you?
Because I know you're full of shit.
I mean it, Grace. I'm getting out of here, and I want to take you with me.
I thought you couldn't get your car.
I could if I had Jake's money.
Is that what changed your mind? The money?
Are you sure?... About me, I mean?
I came back for you; this morning I came back. Before I even knew about the money. You're what I want. The only reason I stormed off is because you spooked me talking about Jake. But I've had nothing but time to think about it. It keeps coming back to you and me and us getting the hell out of here. But we've got
You said you couldn't kill anybody.
Grace ... Grace?
The money's right here! Get the key!
Bobby? What the hell's the matter with you?
I ... nothing. I just stubbed my toe on a rock. Hurt like hell.
I got the money all packed. I put the jeep and his caddy in the garage. People'll think maybe me and Jake went away. Buy us some time...I know a back road we can take.
Good thinking. What's all this?
I can't see it.
Hey! Take it easy. Want to get us killed?
You don't know what it feels like to be free of that place.
I don't know about that?
You spent a day in Superior. I wasted my entire life there. I feel like someone just took a million pounds off my shoulders.
We've still got some dead weight to get rid of.
Can't we just dump him fast someplace?
I want a place where only the vultures will find him... It'll be over soon, Grace.
Then will you take me on your friends' boat with you?
I'm not sailing his boat.
But I thought --
We're going to buy a boat of our own baby, and sail it wherever we want to go.
Anywhere?
What the hell? Why not? Where should we go?
Hawaii. I've read all about it. I've dreamed of going there and just lying on the beach while the water licked up against my feet. Oh, God. I'd kill to go there.
You know I thought you'd left me back there.
Get real Bobby. He was gonna kill you <u>and</u> me.
He was in love with you Grace. He would've done what you wanted, you could've made a deal and ...
The only deal he had in mind was killing you for Jake's murder and blackmailing me into sucking his dick for the rest of my life... no thanks.
He was a <u>cop</u>, Grace, they never stop looking for you when you kill a cop...
So, aren't you going to ask me?
Ask you what? You mean what kind of horrifying sick shit is coming next?
Don't you want to know...? I bet it's burning a hole in your brain just now?
Let it go, baby. It's the past. I got a past...
Why?
No Grace, my hand's bothering me.
Don't you think I would've done it if I wanted to? What can I do to make you relax, baby?
I think nothing happens. You're dead meat. That's it.
You don't believe in anything do you, Bobby?
Well, nothing. We dump Jake, we split the money, then you're on your own.
Don't leave me. I want to say with you, Bobby.
Why? So when the cops catch up with us you can sell me out again?
I was just baiting him! Bobby, I had to tell him that to get his guard down. Just like you told Jake you was going to kill me!
When you're finished with me, I'm next! I been there, baby. I been there with other cunts...sorry, not anymore. I'll take you as far as California. If we can make that. After that you're on your own. Try Mexico. With all this bread, you can live like a queen.
I don't want to go to Mexico, Bobby! Please, I really want to be with you. Don't blow this. Don't you think I care about you?
Time to go for a walk, Jake.
My mother died in this canyon.
Hope is a four-letter word.
Thank you. Thank you. I...I knew you wouldn't leave me, Grace.
Bobby? Are you all right?
I busted my leg!
Can you make it back up?
Why's that?
And I love you too.
<u>Jake</u>...
Morning, officer.
Where ya goin'?
Harlin's.
Seen you popping up a little bit of everywhere today. You're not planning on staying are you?
No, sir. I'm not going to be around long if that's what you're worried about.
That's a nasty cut you got there.
Yeah, fell down and hit a rock. Not as bad as it looks.
There was a young fellow over at Jamilla's today when it got hit. Way she tells it he got whacked around good by one of the robbers.
That's a shame, Bobby. A real shame.
And that's not the half of it, Mr. Arkadin...
"Arkady"
Right, Mr. Arkady. And that's not the half of it. I got your money, and I go into this little grocery store in this hicktown to get something to eat and then... well, it gets <u>robbed</u>!
...And let me guess. This robber -- he gets your money.
No. Two of them. Two robbers. And they <u>both</u> get nailed... get shot by the old lady.
The old lady?
Mr. Arkady, honest, I ad to beat it outta there before the cops showed. So now I don't have a cent to my name. I can't even get my car out of the garage. I tell you, Mister... if it weren't for bad luck I wouldn't have nay fuckin' luck at all, you know? So, I was wondering if you could wire me a
Which you don't have.
Yeah, if you could send it care of...
...Now, let me get this straight. Two years you give me problems with your fuckin' payoffs. Now you owe me thirteen-thousand dollars, you call me - collect - then ask me to wire you one-hundred-fifty dollars just so you can get your car fixed.
A hundred-forty-five would probably cover it.
What'd you say to me!
I need a ticket.
Where to?
Out of here.
But, in particular?
I ... Mexico. You got a bus that goes to Mexico? That's where I have to go.
Mexico is a large country. Where in Mexico would you like--
How about Ciudad Juarez? You could take a local, arrives in two hours, and transfer in Albuquerque. It'll get you across the border.
How much?
One way, or round trip?
One way.
Twenty-seven, fifty. That's all I got.
Keep your change. Bus three-twenty-three. Leaves at seven fifty two, tonight.
You got a beer?
What kind?
Beck's.
No Beck's. A-1, Coors...
Heineken?
No, we ain't got no Heineken. We got Miller.
Genuine Draft?
No. Just plain ol' Miller. Now you can fuckin' take it or you can fuckin' leave it.
Shasta! Now why'd you go and scare the nice man like that? Sorry about that, mister. Let's see, you want $3.25. You try to have a nice day now, would you?
My lord, that little baby of yours Virgil, has gotten cuter'n a bunny's nose.
What was that all about?
You know how that Toby is. Thinks every man he sees is after his Jenny.
Let me get your change.
Son of a bitch!
Virgil! Now look at what you done! Are you all right?
Morning Grace.
Morning Sheriff. Got my drapes.
Well, he offered, and I just couldn't refuse. His car overheated.
Anybody hurt?
You fuck this guy -- get him to do your dirty work and you think you can take the money and dump me?
No baby, you got it wrong.
I don't want the fuckin' money! I'm not gonna give up everything I got for a lousy 50,000 dollars. It's <u>you</u>. You <u>Grace</u> or nothing. The whole thing... I want you to be my wife.... What do you way Grace?
Goddamnit Virgil, stop! Don't!
Who was that on the phone?
Wrong number.
I put up new drapes, Jake.
I know. I was here when your apprentice was helping you. Remember?
You never said anything. About the drapes.
They look nice.
They look nice.
What the hell you looking at, girl?
Ya little bitch, you like it don't you! You like it this way -- rough and hard. Gotta go fuck around on me, like your Mama, but you always gotta come home to Daddy, don't you, cause you know Daddy's the best.
Yes, yes, hit me...beat me, please.
You been a bad girl, Grace. You took my heart from your Mama, didn't ya? You betrayed her! Like you did me. There ain't no forgivin' ya, girl!
Oh no! Oh please forgive me, Papa!
You broke her heart! You broke your Mama's heart. You stole me! That's right. Fuck it away. But it ain't ever goin' away, cause your Mama -- she's like a hungry ghost baby, she won't go away, she won't leave ya alone.
What's the matter?
You didn't hear something?
Yeah, I heard a key slapping against my ass.
Jake, don't go out there. Call the sheriff.
Help me, Grace, help...
I axed you a question.
Aw, Toby, we weren't doing nothing. We was just talking.
Honest, Toby. I just axed him for a quarter for the jukebox.
I want to stay.
Toby! Toby Tucker, leave him alone!
Where's the fire sweetheart? Don't know how they work things in Nevada, but we got speed limits in this state.
Whoa, what kind of accent you got there? You one of them Russians?
I am Russian, da! I am also <u>rich</u> Russian, da? Maybe we work something out, my friend Sheriff?
What's that? ..."concealed" is a definite no no in this town, Ivan. You know anything about Jamilla's grocery store?
Get out of the car, spread them. You can jawbone all you want or you have the right to <u>shut the fuck up</u>! You commie motherfucker. Either way you're goin' to the can.
Yes?
Is Noel in?
No sir he is not. I read about you in the paper.
Oh.
I was in an accident once too. A horse almost trampled me to death.
Wow.
Proceed.
Is that the entire message?
Wrap it up.
Once again please?
My son Jeb. It's a gift for him.
How old is Jeb?
Four.
No, no, no, no no... You need to go now.
What did I say?
I'm listening.
I'll keep it in my office room.
What about Jeb?
I don't think I got the job in New York.
What does that mean?
I'm still going to New York. Just not this second.
I don't want to drag this out too long for Jeremy.
Is Jeremy okay?
He's asleep.
I don't know. It's been a while.
I haven't been sick this year. I know that.
Okay.
Do you remember me getting sick?
Not a specific day. What's this about?
...I can't remember.
That's strange isn't it? Not remembering one fever... Or a cold... Or a sore throat. What do you think that means?
Is that what you wanted to ask me?
Yes.
Is there anything else you wanted to ask me while I'm up?... When was the last time you wore pink? When was the last time you drank soup standing up? Final call for strange questions at two in the morning.
When was the last time I wore pink?
The Mitchell barbecue three years ago.
Oh shit...
I've come to a decision.
Megan?
Yes. Is this David?
Yeah? Megan where are you calling from?
I remember you.
...When you work with clients on machines, do they sometimes just jump up a level or two? Do something they didn't know they were capable of?
What do I do when I'm around someone I know?
He's just laying in bed. He's pretty upset. He won't talk.
Would you like to try going--
Yes.
Oh. Elijah Price came to visit me at the center today.
He didn't do anything. He just told me his theory... It's sad when patients get like that. They loose reality.
...I think rust.
Rust?
I didn't know that. Mine's still brown.
My turn. What's your favorite song?
Soft and Wet, by the Artist Formerly Known as Prince.
What was that?
Soft and Wet. That's very interesting.
I'm not sure.
Think carefully?
What about the game?
Maybe it wasn't a specific moment, maybe it--
I had a nightmare one night and I didn't wake you up so you could tell me it was okay. I think that was the first time. Does that count?
Why?
I don't know Megan.
You've never been sick?
How certain are you that you haven't been sick in your life?
Seventy-five percent.
Seventy-five percent? That's not nearly good enough for me. I'm extremely skeptical.
Skeptical about what?
What's he talking about?
In college. A car accident.
I assumed because of the train.
You forgot the "Now I'm going to tell you what the hell is going on" step. See usually that comes before the, "It's over" Step. And it always, always comes before the "You can go" Step. What is over?
This city has had its share of disasters. Well publicized ones. It was around the time of that plane crash, when it first entered my head. And there it stayed, as I waited and watched the news over the years... And then one day I see a news report on a train accident and its sole survivor who was miraculously unharmed. And just like
At the church... You were following me weren't you?
What's this about? This is obviously some scam. Is this where you tell me one of those pictures is like an investment?
You've misunderstood.
It's for last week's game.
What do you want?
Not money. But I appreciate your healthy cynicism in the manner. It will be wise for both of us to proceed with greatest caution.
We're not proceeding anywhere together.
Why is it, do you think, that of all the professions in the world... you chose protection?
Are you for real?
Just give me a minute.
Is there a problem?
I got you a seat in the seven hundred level. It's nose-bleed territory, but at least you won't get spit on.
How did you know that man you bumped was carrying a weapon?
Probably the army jacket. Those guys carry hunting knives and stuff for show.
I thought he was carrying something.
But not a knife?
You have good instincts when it comes to things like that?
Like what?
Yes.
Have you ever tried to develop it?
I don't know what you're asking?
Listen. I got to be on the sidelines during the game... You can get to your seat by taking the stairwell at--
Okay, I don't want to play this game anymore.
It's an exaggeration of the truth. Maybe it's based on something as simple as instinct. Like being able to touch someone and tell whether they've done something wrong... Or the level of what they've done wrong.
The guy might not have been carrying anything.
I have to go now.
Quick.
I must have felt some lump in his back when I bumped him. Most guns have a black or silver handle. I had a fifty-fifty shot at the color.
That's not what I witnessed David.
Stop messing with my life Elijah. My son almost shot me last night. He wanted to prove you were right.
I never said you couldn't be killed. I never said that.
Are you finished?
I am. I'm helping him with the sale.
It's a pleasure to meet you. I'm David Dunne.
He's spoken of you. He says you're becoming friends.
He's doing well today.
I'm very proud of him. He's been through a lot in his life. A lot of ups and downs, a lot of bad spells. A couple I'd thought had broken him... I mean emotionally. They were bad... But he made it. Yes he did.
He's kind of a miracle.
Dunne, it's Jenkins, we got a guy at gate 17C with a bogus ticket. Says he knows you. He won't tell me his name.
What's he look like?
He's got the most beautiful eyes... The hell kind of question is that? He's a guy.
Send him packing. I'm not walking all the way over there.
Yeah?
When?
Jeremy, why don't you go sleep with your mom?
I want to sleep here tonight.
I think it's be better if I was alone.
I won't make any noise.
He going pro in the draft. They say he can run the fifty--
I'm going to go in.
Just play one set of downs. I told them you were great.
Why'd you do that?
Just one--
Jeremy. I'm going in. I have to do some things.
What things?
I'm going to work out.
I'll help you.
You think you could beat up Mike Tyson? I mean before he started wiggin out and eating people's ears?
No.
What if you worked out everyday for six months? You think you could beat him then?
No.
You put too much. That's two hundred and fifty pounds.
No.
I mean if you knew karate?
No Jeremy.
How much did you take off?
How much is it?
What do you do if something happens?
How many did you put on that time?
All of it.
I'm sleeping in my room.
I see.
I'm not scared.
That's great.
I know now.
Know what?
YOU WON'T GET HURT...
That was me they were talking about. I almost died. That was me.
You're lying.
I'll just shoot him once.
Don't be scared.
You like sports?
It's my field. I represent athletes. I'm an agent.
What a coincidence? I'm a male synchronized swimmer and I'm looking for representation.
Is that right?
You represent someone in Philadelphia?
Not really.
Yeah, hello.
He doesn't look very threatening.
How are you feeling?
You are in the emergency room of the University of Pennsylvania Hospital. You were in a serious accident. How's your vision?
Where were you sitting on the train?
Against a window.
In the passenger car?
Yes. Where are the rest of the passengers?
Was your family traveling with you?
No.
Did you get up from your seat?
We're going to prevent any substantial atrophy of your good leg with this. It works the quadriceps.
Twelve years.
Now you're going to have to tell me more.
...See my husband was a big football star in college and we were in an accident together. Our car flipped on an icy road. We were both injured. He couldn't play football anymore. If that hadn't happened, we wouldn't have been together.
How so?
Football wasn't the kind of life I wanted... For ten years I'd be by the phone waiting for a call telling me he broke his neck in a practice game. And if it wasn't that call, it would be a call telling me he blew out his knee or suffered his third concussion. I've seen way too much of it in my job... I
You and my mother would have a special connection.
Any way, fate stepped in and took football out of the equation.
There have been three major disasters in this city over the last four years. I've followed each one of them... A Seven-three-seven crashes on take off. One hundred and seventy-two die. No survivors... A hotel fire downtown. Two hundred and eleven die. No survivors... And am Amtrak train derails seven and half miles outside of the city. One hundred and thirty one die. One
Is this a religious thing?
I own a comic book museum. It's called the Limited Edition.
For a second there I thought you were a fanatic.
No more sitting in this room. I've let it go on long enough.
I'm not going out anymore. I'm not getting hurt again. This was the last time. I told you.
...I got a present for you.
Why?
Well, go get it then.
Where is it?
She's gonna live. She didn't steal nothin', She didn't touch his poke.
No?
A whippin'? That's all they get? After what they done?
Whippin' ain't a little thing, Alice.
You... you ain't even gonna... whip 'em?
I fined 'em instead.
For what they done? Skinny gets some ponies an' that's...?
Ain't you seen enough blood for one night? Hell, Alice, they ain't loafers nor tramps nor bad men. They're hard workin' boys that was foolish. Why if they was given over to wickedness in a regular way...
If they was just here for the fuckin', how come they lit out the back window?
You just kicked the shit out of a innocent man, you big asshole.
Where'd you get the money, huh?
We ain't got it. We ain't got no money.
You told them cowboys you had it.
We was... lyin'.
Rain's coming.
I didn't think they'd really do it.
What did you think, they come clear up from Kansas to fuck us?
That Kid... he's just a... boy. And that other one, Bill, being true to his wife...
What wife? He don't have no wife.
He said...
Why, if you were to point a pistol at a King or a Queen, sir, I can assure you your hand would shake as though palsied...
I wouldn't point no pistol at nobody, sir.
Now this Strawberry Alice person, tell me again.
Down the street and across. Greely's Beer Garden and Billiard parlor. Just ask for Alice and say you want a game of billiards.
Billiards, eh? Even though I don't really wish to play?
Don't matter. They burned the table in '78 for firewood.
Where's Little Bill for Christ sake?
Ha. He was building his fucking porch.
He's coming ain't he?
What'd he say?
He didn't say nothin', huh?
Asked what they looked like, that's all. Christ, maybe he's tough but he sure ain't no carpenter.
We never seen him up against any... like these ones... killers.
Little Bill come out of Kansas an' Texas, boys. He worked them tough towns.
...wouldn't let you settle it, huh?
I couldn't find no bullwhips, Bill. The German...
He tell you where them others is?
Nope.
He give 'em names?
Didn't give us nothin' but his own name... Ned Roundtree.
I thought... you was an angel.
Some big guy beat the shit out of me. I guess I must look a lot like you, huh?
You don't look nothin' like me, mister.
I didn't mean no offense. I guess you're the one them cowboys cut up. Ned an' The Kid, my partners, are they... ?
They went out scouting when they saw your fever broke.
Scouting?
On the Bar T... looking for... them.
Oh. How long I been here?
Three days. Are you hungry?
I thought I was gone. See them birds? Most times I wouldn't even notice them birds much. But I'm noticin' 'em real good 'cause I thought I was dead.
I brought your hat. You... left it down at Greely's.
Are you really going to kill them?
Them other two, they been takin' advances on the payment.
Free ones?
Alice an' Silky gave them... free ones.
Oh. Yeah.
You want... a free one.
I didn't mean... with me. Alice and Silky, they'll give you one... if you want.
You're a beautiful woman an'... if I was to want a free one, I guess I'd want you more than them others. It ain't... See... I can't have no free one on account of my wife...
Your wife?
Yeah. See?
I admire that, you being true to your wife. I've seen a lot of... of men... who weren't.
Yeah, I guess.
She back in Kansas?
Hullo, Bob. Boys, this here is English Bob.
Shit and fried eggs.
Been a long time, Bob. You run out of Chinamen?
Little Bill, I thought you were dead. I see you shaved off your chin whiskers.
What I heard was that you fell off your horse drunk and broke your neck.
I heard that one myself, Bob. Hell, I even thought I was dead til I found out it was just I was in Nebraska. Who's your friend?
Books. He's my biographer.
Not really... Maybe a couple of Peacemakers... I imagine you could overlook those, eh, Bill? If you didn't see them... or hear them?
Charley, see what kind of "books" Mister Beauchamp is packing... but watch you don't get wet.
You leave me at the mercy of my enemies.
Mmmm pistols.
We got one of them fuckers, Sheriff, out by Cow Creek, we...
Alive?
Hell, yeah. A bunch of us Bar T boys went out lookin' on account of them killin' one of our own. We come across this fucker on a roan goin' South an'...
He admit it?
No... but I guess he will soon enough. Had a Spencer rifle on him an' he was...
Those cowboys messin' him up?
Uh... a little, maybe.
Shut up, Alice. Little Bill, a whippin' ain't gonna settle this.
No?
This here's a lawful contract... betwixt me an' Delilah Fitzgerald, the cut-whore. Now I brung her clear from Boston, paid her expenses an' all, an' I got a contract which represents an investment of capital.
Property.
Damaged property. Like if I was to hamstring one of their cow ponies.
You figure nobody'll want to fuck her.
She could maybe clean up around the place or somethin', but nobody's gonna pay good money for a cut-up whore.
Hit your finger, huh?
Huh? Hullo, Skinny. Snuck up on me. How do you like her?
Heard you done the roof yourself.
Roof? Jesus, Skinny, I done practically every damn thing myself. Roberts boy hauled wood, that's all.
What's all that wood?
Yeah?
Them whores, they been fuckin' an' fuckin' all them cowboys that come into town the last two weeks...
Shit, Skinny, we got railroad barons an' cattle barons, but you' re gonna be the first of the billiard barons.
An' all them cowboys been riding that beef down to Kansas an' Cheyenne?
Yup.
All week?
I didn't hear nothin' till last night.
Word must have got all the way to Texas by now.
Oh, shit, Bill, I guess nobody's gonna come clear from Texas.
They really got all that money, them whores?
You know how women kin lie... I knock 'em around a little, ask 'em where the money is, they say they don't have none?... but they coulda squirreled away that much, the five of 'em. Maybe.
That much, huh?
You could run off them two cowboys.
I could run off them whores.
Well, I guess they'll just up an' run anyhow, them two.
Uh, no. No, I ain't drunk.
Ordinance says you got to turn in your firearms to the County office day or night. I guess you didn't read it with the weather an' all.
Well... uh... I... I ain't got no, uh, firearms.
Them friends of yours in the back, they carryin' pistols?
I... dunno. I mean, I guess not. No, they ain't carryin' no guns.
You're spillin' your whiskey, mister.
Like I said, I...
What's your name?
Well, Mister Hendershot, if I was to call you a no good sonofabitch an' a liar, an' if I was to say you shit in your pants on account of a cowardly soul... well, I guess then, you would show me your pistol right quick an' shoot me dead, ain't that so?
I guess you just carry it for snakes an' such.
Uh... yeah. Yeah.
There ain't no snakes in here, Mister Hendershot.
He should have armed himself if he was gonna decorate his saloon with the body of my friend.
I guess you are Three-Fingered Jack out of Missouri, killer of women and children.
I don't... deserve this... to die this way. I was... building a house.
"Deserve" don't mean shit, Little Bill.
You work for the railroads too, Mister Beauchamp?
N-no. I wr-wr-wr-write... I wr- wrwrite...
It's only a b-b-b-book...
The... Duck of Death.
That is you there, ain't it, Bob? The Duck of Death?
Uh... It's... uh... generally considered desirable in the publishing business to... ah... take certain license in depicting the cover scene... for... ah... purposes involving the... ah, market place.
Well, Mister Beauchamp... from what I read of this here book, I'd have to say the writin' ain't a whole lot different from the pitcher.
Uh... I can assure you, Mister Daggett... the events described within are based... on the accounts of eye witnesses and...
Meaning the duck himself, I guess.
Duke.
Duck, I says. "You have insulted the honor of this beautiful woman, Corcoran," said the duck. "You must apologize." But Two Gun Corcoran would have none of it and, cursing, he reached for his pistols and would have killed them but The Duck was faster and hot lead blazed from his smoking sixguns."
I believe that to be an accurate description of the events, sir... albeit there is a certain poetry to the language which...
Well, Mister Beauchamp, I was at the Blue Bottle Saloon in Wichita the night English Bob killed Corky Corcoran... an' I didn't see you there... nor no woman, nor no twogun shooters nor nothin' like that.
First off... Corky didn't carry two pistols, though he should of.
But he was called...
Well, that bullet whizzin' by panicked Corky, an' he done the wrong thing! Pulled his gun in such a damn hurry he shot off his own toe. Meantime, Bob aims good and squeezes off another... but he's so drunk he misses again an' hits the thousand dollar mirror behind the bar. Well, now the Duck of Death is good as dead 'cause this time
And?
Bam! That Walker Colt blew up in his hand... which was a failing common to that model. Now if Corky would have really had two guns instead of just a big dick he could have defended himself to the end.
You... you mean... English Bob killed him while...?
But if the other fellow is quicker and fires first...
He will be hurryin' and he will miss. That there is as fast as I can pull an' aim an' hit anythin' more'n ten feet away... unless it's a barn.
But... if he doesn't miss?
Them's the keys. All you gotta do is shoot me an' you an' English Bob can ride out free as birds.
Is... is it... loaded?
R-r-r-really? You r-r-really w- wwant...?
"Well, Jim," I says, "it makes me sick to see a man struttin' around and packin' two pistols an' a Henry rifle and cryin' like a baby."
Did you... kill him?
I do not like assassins an' men of low character like your friend English Bob... but Bob ain't no coward who will cry to your face an' then...
Uh... Sheriff... Uh...
Huh? Oh. Another one, huh? Shit, I guess I'm clean out of receptacles.
Maybe you should... hang the carpenter.
What?
I was watchin' you... seein' if you was followed.
Ned's share?
Yeah, he went South ahead of us. I guess we'll catch him before...
He's... he's dead.
No he ain't. He went South yesterday.
They... they killed him. I... thought you know that. I thought you knew because...
Who killed him?
Little Bill. The... the Bar T boys caught him and Little Bill...
He hanged him? Shot him down?
N-no. He... he beat him up. He was making him... answer questions... and beating him up... and then... Ned just died. Little Bill didn't mean to kill him... he said he was sorry an' all... but he said it was a good example anyhow.
Good example! Good example of what I'd like to know? He didn't even kill nobody... he couldn't do it no more.
They got... a sign on him says he was a killer.
A sign on him?
In front of Greely's. It says, "This here is what happens to..."
The questions Little Bill asked him... what sort of questions was they?
About where you an' him was... an' where you was from... an' what your names was... an'...
What'd Ned say?
L-lies... at first. About how you was just passin' through and didn't kill nobody... an' Little Bill kept askin' questions, mixin' him up, catchin' lies... an' then he'd beat on Ned an' Ned would cry and lie some more an' then... then...
Then... what?
A cowboy come in sayin' you killed Quick Mike in the shit house at the Bar T...
An' Little Bill killed Ned for what I done?
He said how you was really Three Fingered Jack out of Missouri... an' Bill said "Same Three Fingered Jack that dynamited the Rock Island and Pacific in '69 killin' women and children an' all?" An' Ned says you done a lot worse than that, said you was more cold blooded than William Bonney or Clay Alisson or the James Brothers an' how if he
Didn't scare Little Bill though, did it?
N-no, sir?
William Munny, yeah.
You shot Charlie Pepper, didn't you? And you're the one killed William Harbey an' robbed the train over...
You're Pete Sothow's nephew, huh? Hell, I thought maybe you was someone come to kill me... ...for somethin' I done in the old days.
I could of... easy.
Yeah, I guess so.
Like I was sayin' you don't look like no meaner than hell cold-blooded damn killer.
Maybe I ain't.
He said that, huh?
I'm a damn killer myself, only I ain't killed so many as you because of my youth. Schofield Kid, they call me.
Schofield? You from Schofield?
On account of my Schofield model Smith and Wesson pistol.
Oh.
Well, how about it?
About what?
Bein' my partner. I'm headin' North up around the Niobrara in Nebraska. Gonna kill a couple of no good cowboys.
What for?
For cuttin' up a lady. They cut up her face an' cut her eyes out, cut her ears off an' her tits too.
Jesus!
I ain't like that no more, Kid. Whiskey done it as much as anythin' I guess. I ain't touched a drop in ten years. My wife, she cured me of it... cured me of drink an' wickedness.
Well... you don't look so prosperous. Hell, you could buy her a new dress out of your half. We could kill them two an' you could buy your wife one of them fancy...
She's passed on, Kid.
Huh?
Been gone near three years now.
Don't tell nobody about the reward an' all. Don't need no other gunmen tryin' to collect.
I don't never see nobody anyhow.
Well, we was. Like you said, I changed my mind an'...
Well, now Kid, there's two of these cowboys, ain't that so? Better there's three of us... maybe them cowboys got friends. Maybe...
Three ways, I figured.
No.
You're goin' back with him?
What the hell are you pissin' about, I'd like to know?
Huh?
Well, what were you lookin' at anyhow?
Now hold on, boys, hold on. Now, Kid, you kin see fifty yards, can't you?
Bet your ass I kin see fifty yards an' I kin shoot this sonofabitch...
Say, Bill. That business in Jackson County... did that really happen? I mean how they say it happened?
What business?
An' how there was two deputies up close pointin' rifles at you... had you dead to rights... an' how you pulled out a pistol an' blew them both away to hell... an' only took a scratch yourself. Uncle Pete told me he never seen nothin' like it, shootin' your way out of a scrape like that.
Well... I don't recollect.
Get some sleep, Kid.
Finish him, Ned.
He ain't dead? You didn't get him?
Did you kill him?
What happened? He ain't dead? What's goin' on?
If he gets behind them rocks we ain't gonna get him... not without we go down there.
Shit!
Better re-load it.
You missed him? You didn't...?
He ain't killed.
They takin' water?
When we gonna double back?
You're gonna lose your share. If you don't...
It's gonna get riper yet.
You still think he's in there?
Yeah, he's in there.
Well, he's holding on to his shit like it was money.
He's in there.
Tell me right off if you see him.
Yup.
You... you ain't gonna shoot him yourownself?
Is it him?
Did... you... get... him?
Cover me, Kid, while I mount.
I can't see 'em.
Yeah, I guess so.
Say, Bill...
That was... the first one.
First one what?
First one I ever killed.
Yeah?
Well, that fella today, you shot him alright.
Take a drink, Kid.
It's a hell of a thing, ain't it, killin' a man. You take everythin' he's got... an' everythin' he's ever gonna have...
Well, I gu-guess they had it... comin'.
I trust you, Bill.
Wha... what f-for?
Lemmee see it.
You... gonna take... the money?
You could have it. All of it.
I thought you wanted to buy spectacles an' fancy clothes an' all.
This here money, take my share an' Ned's an' leave it with my youngsters. Tell 'em half goes to Sally Two Trees if I ain't back in a week. The rest is yours... you could buy them spectacles.
Are you... Are you gonna... kill Little Bill?
I guess you won't mind my keepin' the bottle.
You're gonna kill him, ain't you?
I... I... think I'm... shot.
You ain't shot.
P-p-p-please, I'm not armed. M-m-my G-god. You killed... Little Bill.
You sure you ain't armed?
I never c-c-carry arms. I'm... a writer.
A writer? What do you write... letters an' such?
B-b-books. You... you killed five men... singlehanded.
Wh-wh-who did you kill first?
Huh?
Wh-wh-when confronted by superior numbers, the experienced gunfighter will fire on the best shots first.
I was lucky in the order. I always been lucky killin' folks.
Who was next? Clyde? Or was it...?
We ain't bad men no more, Bill. Hell, we're farmers.
Should be easy killin' em... supposin' they don't run off to Texas first.
How long since you shot a gun at a man? Nine... ten years?
Eleven.
Easy, huh? Hell, I don't know that it was all that easy then... an' we was young an' full of beans. Bill... if you was mad at 'em... if they done you wrong... I could see shootin' 'em...
We done stuff before for money, Ned.
Well, we thought we was doin' it for money... What'd they do anyhow? Cheat at cards, steal some strays, spit on a rich fella?
Cut up a woman. Cut her eyes out, cut her tits off, cut her fingers off... done everythin' but cut up her cunny, I guess.
How long you gonna be, Bill?
Two weeks, I guess.
Three ways?
Yup. You still got the Spencer rifle?
He musta been movin' right along.
Got used to my bed. Ain't gonna feel to home out here.
Well, it ain't just the bed I'm gonna miss. I'm... Hell, Billy, I'm sorry. I didn't mean...
It ain't nothin', don't fret it. She don't like it much, you goin' off with me.
Sally?
She gave me the evil eye.
It's just... she's a Indian an' Indians ain't... overfriendly.
I ain't blamin' her, Ned, I ain't holdin' it against her. She knew me back then... an' she seen what a no good sonofabitch I was... an' she won't allow how I've changed. She just don't know how I ain't like that no more.
Well, she...
I ain't the same, Ned. Claudia, she... straightened me up, got me clear of the whiskey an' all. Us goin' to do this killin'... that don't mean I'm back to like I was. I just need the money... for a new start... for them youngsters. Remember that drover, the one I shot in the mouth so's the teeth come out the back of his
You was a... a crazy sonofabitch.
Nobody liked me... none of the boys. They was scared of me... figured I might shoot 'em out of pure meanness.
You ain't like that no more.
Eagle... he hated my guts. Bonaparte didn't like me none.
Nor Quincy, I guess.
Quincy, he was always watchin' me. Scared.
You ain't like that no more.
Say, Bill... You ever... ever go into town... an' all?
Sure, I got to. Got to get supplies.
Naw. Naw, I don't ever go into town for that. A man like me... A man like me can't get no woman but one he's gonna pay for... an' that ain't right... buyin' flesh. Claudia, God rest her soul, she wouldn't have wanted me doin' nothin' like that, me bein' a father, an' all.
Whaddaya do, just use your hand?
Some fucker's shootin' at us.
Yeah.
He hit you?
He ain't shootin' our way no more. He's shootin' over that way. Who's he shootin' at over that way?
Beats the hell out of me.
You suppose maybe we're in somebody's field?
HEY.
You're marking us, Bill.
HEY, KID.
Kid? The Kid's shootin at us?
IS THAT YOU, KID?
Why would the Kid shoot at us?
Now Ned's a hell of a shot with a rifle. Hell, he can hit a bird in the eye flyin'.
Shit.
Jesus.
I give it up 'cause I hate sleepin' out in the air... fuckin' sticks in my food... an' fuckin' bugs in my food... an' fuckin' rocks under my back... Shit, I sure do miss my fuckin' bed.
Yeah... you said that last night.
I brung this for when we had to kill them fellows. I guess we could use some now.
Not for me. I don't touch it no more.
God damn it, Bill, it's rainin'.
No.
What he was talkin' about... how them deputies had the drop on you an' Pete...
Yeah?
I remember how there was three of them deputies you shot... not two.
Well, I ain't like that no more, Ned. I ain't no crazy, killin' fool.
You... you remember Eagle Hendershot?
Huh? Uh... yeah.
I seen him.
He's dead, Bill.
His head was all busted open so's you could see the inside.
Jesus, Bill, you got fever. Take a drink, will you?
Worms was comin' out.
Claudia... ain't here, Bill.
Ned... Is that you, Ned? Ned, I seen... death.
Easy, Bill.
I seen the angel of death Ned, an' I seen the river. He's a snake, he got... snake eyes.
Who, Bill? Who got snake eyes?
The angel... the angel of death. I'm scared, Ned. Ned, I'm gonna die.
I seen her... I seen Claudia too...
Well, that's good now, ain't it, Bill? Seein' Claudia an...?
HOW MANY LEFT GODDAMIT?
I'm goin' on down to Kansas.
You want the Spencer, Bill?
Me an' the Kid, we'll head over to the ranch an' as soon as we find him, we'll shoot him. Then we'll come back an' the three of us pick up the money an' head South together.
Supposin' he don't go to the ranch?
I'll bet anything he won't go to town nor he won't ride out on the range. Right off he'll hole up at the ranch.
I ain't waitin', Bill. I'll look in on your youngsters when I get back.
What is it, son?
Who's he?
Hullo, paw.
I guess you lost some hogs to the fever.
Three.
That fella come by... Tom.
Tom?
The one you rode out after... the one that had the pistol...
The Kid, yeah...
He say anythin'... The Kid... ?
Tom? Only how... how if you didn't... didn't come back in a week... how we was to take half the money to Sally an' say you was...
Did you... did you... ?
Did I what?
All that money... I mean... did you...?
Steal it? Naw, I didn't steal it.
No... I meant...
What?
K-k-kill somebody?
Who said that?
N-nobody... only you took your shotgun an' that pistol an'...
Before I met your maw, God rest her soul, it used to be I was kinda... wicked... drinkin' spirits an' gettin' into scrapes an' all. Only she made me see the error of my ways an'... I ain't like I was no more.
I guess you didn't kill nobody then.
What was you shootin' at us for, anyhow?
Well, this here's Ned Logan... Ned, this here's the Schofield Kid, nephew of Pete Sothow an'...
I was only checkin' it for you. Thought maybe somethin' was bent.
Nothin's bent.
Well, you was shootin' every which way an'...
Clouds, Kid. We was lookin' at them clouds on account of we got a storm ridin' up our ass.
You was right to change your mind, Kid.
Yeah?
Far enough.
We ain't goin' to Nebraska on no turtle hunt. A hundred yards?
More.
See that scrub oak yonder?
Fuck you.
He's blind, for Chri...
Say, Ned... ?
Yeah.
How many men you killed? Ain't you gonna answer?
I don't like the question.
Well, I gotta know what kind of fellas I'm ridin' with, don't I? In case of a scrape.
How many you killed, Kid?
Jesus. You done this before?
His pistol must of jammed.
Move the candle closer, I can't see.
He didn't even pull his pistol, huh?
He ain't as tough as you, Kid.
Well, I guess I woulda at least pulled my pistol an...
Shit, Kid, you pulled your pistol... right outta the lady an' out the back window.
We're gonna need more food... at least three days worth...
Three days? We could kill 'em tomorrow.
I don't kill nobody without him.
Depends what he told you. About Bill, you mean?
All of it. About him, an' you an' Uncle Pete... about robbin' the Rock Island Pacific... an' about them Missouri Banks.
We done that stuff.
He's gonna die, ain't he?
Maybe.
Well, suppose he does?
We'll bury him.
That ain't what I mean.
You mean, am I gonna help you kill them cowboys?
I can't spot 'em myself but you could. That red-haired one, you could spot a half-mile off, I bet.
An' if I spot 'em?
I'll ride up close an' shoot 'em!
Just like that?
I told you I'm a damn killer. I done it before. I'm more killer than him.
Yeah?
Jack. What are you doing here?
I've been looking all over for you. You still after the coke that walked out of that blood bath in the harbor?
Yeah.
There was ninety-one million -
We know, but our man says no way on the dope. This Hungarian tells me the whole bunch was pulling stumps for Turkey the next' day. They had no time to negotiate that kind of product and no means to move it.
What was the money for?
He didn't know. No one doing the deal knew except a few key people. This guy says they were real hush about it. Whatever it was it was highly sensitive.
I don't get it.
They tell me you got the cripple from New York in there. He mention Keyser Soze
Who ?
A boy came across a body on the beach this morning. Thrown clear when the boat burned. Shot once in the head. Two guys from the F.B.I. just identified him. +
Keyser Soze
&lt;&lt;We were there to buy a man and take him back to Hungary.&gt;&gt;
Not dope. Something else. Some what?.. He doesn't knob what they were buying. But not dope... people.
&lt;&lt;No, no, no. I need a guarantee from the ridiculous man. I am going to be killed. I have seen the Devil and looked him in the eye.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Keyser Soze. Keyser Sate. I've seen his face. I see it when I close my eyes.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;It was smaller than that. Sharper.&gt;&gt;
+ The nose is sharper. Smaller too. + &lt;&lt;And what about the hair? You said something earlier about it.&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;It is longer than that. And not so dark. &gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Are you sure?&gt;&gt;
&lt;&lt;Don't be stupid.&gt;&gt;
Now remember, this is another kind of business. They don't earn your respect. You owe it to them. Don't stare them down but don't look away either. Confidence. They are fools not to trust you. That's the attitude.
I'm having a stroke.
...and the desk Sergeant is actually trying to tell me he can't release you? Can you believe that? You weren't even charged. New York police - Jesus. I want to take pictures of your face to bring to the D.A. first thing in the morning.
I'11 have this thing in front of a grand jury by Monday.
Edie, please. I don't want to hear this right now. What did Renault and Fortier say?
They want more time to think about investing.
Goddamnit.
They just said they wanted time.
Give me some credit. I got you this far, let's go to the grand jury. This is never going to stop if we -
Don't give up on me now, Dean.
They'll never stop.
I love you.
They ruined me tonight.
Come home, Dean.
That's enough, Edie.
I don't know what you came here for, but we won't have any part of it.
I know who he is.
I hope I didn't disturb you.
I hope so, too, Mr. Kint. Can I get you something to drink?
So what is it you do, Mr. Kint?
Umm ...
I'd say you've gotten on his main and central nerve, McManus.
Forget him. It's not important. I was trying to make a point.
How many times have you been in a line- up? It's always you and four dummies. The P.D. pays homeless guys ten bucks a head half the time. No way they'd line five felons in the same row. No way. And what the hell is a voice line-.up? A public defender could get you off of that.
So why the hell was I hauled in and cavity searched tonight?
It was the Feds. A truck load of guns gets snagged, Customs comes down on N.Y.P.D. for some answers - they come up with us. They're grabbing at straws. It's politics - nothing you can do.
Fuck you. I'11 never shit right again. So who did it? Own up.
This is not right.
Yeah. He said he did jobs for him. Indirect stuff. Always five times more money than the job was worth.
Come on. The guy is a pipe dream. This Kobayashi is using him for window dressing .
You're fuckin' A right, no P.C. Well screw P.C. No right. No goddamn right. You do some time, they never let you go. Treat me like a criminal, I'll end up a criminal.
You are a criminal.
I'm sure you can understand my hesitation.
Then who goes?
DON'T MOVE, YOU FUCKERS.
Everybody I ever worked with, did time with.
It's bullshit. This guy could be L.A.P.D. I think it's a setup.
You heard right.
He's alright.
How do I know that? How about it, pretzel-man? What's your story?
Why don't you just calm down'
Keaton, we gotta go. They're gonna find him.
It's a logistical nightmare. Close quarters, no advance layout, ten men, maybe twenty.
Can we stealth these guys?
I know you. You don't think I know you're on the take. This whole fucking precinct is dirty. You don't have a fucking leg to stand on.
Roger really. People say I talk too much.
What are we gonna do?
Me too.
Did you hear what he just said?
We've met once or twice. Last time was in...
County. I was in for fraud.
You were waiting for a line-up then, too. What happened with that?
How do you do?
What the hell do you want?
I wanted to talk to you. The other guys -
I did you a favor by standing up for you last night, but don't think we're friends. I'm sorry, but I have other things -
Get out.
Don't hurt me.
They - That's bullshit. They don't operate anymore.
What fence? Who?
Some guy in California. His name is Redfoot.
You have to come.
They - They don't know me. You do. They won't take me unless you go. Look at me. I need this.
Tough break.
You watch your mouth.
I was out of line.
You okay?
I'11 be alright.
Well, I'm sorry.
How are they going to do it?
McManus wants to go in shooting. I said no way.
Fenster and Hockney?
They're pretty pissed off. They'll do anything. Now I got a way to do it without killing anyone: but like I said, they won't let me in without you.
Three million?
Maybe more.
No killing?
We'll make it.
Don't do this. Send her a card - something.
What is it Keaton?
What is this?
What-are they speaking?
Russian, I think. I don't know.
Keaton, I can't just -
I want you to find Edie. Both of you find some place safe. Tell her what happened - Everything. She knows people. She'll know what to do. If we can't get Kobayashi my way, she'll get him her way.
What if I
How are you, Keaton?
Ready?
Let's say for example -
with what?
You know damn well, dead-man.
My employer requires your services. One job. One day's work. Very dangerous. I don't expect all of you to live, but those who do will have ninety-one million dollars to divide any way they see fit.
Who's your boss?
My employer wishes to remain anonymous.
Don't jerk me off. We all know what this is. You don't work with me if I work with you without knowing who I'm working for. Now let's cut the shit. Who's the man?
You set up the line-up.
Mr. Soze made a few calls, yes. You were not to be released until I came to see you. It seems Mr. Keaton's attorney, Ms. Finneran, was a bit too effective in expediting his release. Holding the rest of you became a moot point.
What about Redfoot?
The answer is no.
Mr. Soze will be most -
Listen to me, cocksucker. There is no Keyser Sate. If you say his name again, I'11 kill you right here.
Ahh, Mr. Hockney. Do join us.
We know you can get to us, and now you know we can get to you. I'm offering you the chance to call this off.
Mr. So- My employer has made up his mind. He does not change it.
I am sorry, Mr. McManus. f implore you to believe me, Mr. Keaton. Mr. Soze is very real and very + determined.
What did you say?
No matter. Kill away, Mr. McManus.
You're lying.
We're on vacation.
Take your time. Enjoy L.A.
A friend of mine in New York tells me you knew Spook Hollis.
I hear you did time with old Spook. Yeah, he was a good egg. I used to run a lot of dope for him. Fuckin' shame he got shivved.
Better you hear it from me now than somebody else later.
A little of both.
Get a grip. I didn't know.
The job got thrown to me by this lawyer.
Who is he?
Some Limey. He's a middle-man for somebody. He doesn't say and I don't ask.
We want to meet him.
He wants to meet you. He called last night and asked me to set it up. What do I tell him'
What do you mean I can't see him?
The D.A. came down here last night ready to arraign before they even moved him to county. Kint's lawyer comes in and five minutes later, the D.A. comes out looking like he'd been bitch-slapped by the boogey man. They took his statement and cut him a deal.
Weapons. Misdemeanor two.
When does he post bail?
Two hours, tops.
He won't go into the interrogation room.
Someplace else, then.
I know what I wanted to know about Keaton.
Which is shit.
No matter. He'll have to know how close we came.
Keyser Sate or not, if Keaton's alive he'll never come up again.
I'11 find him.
Waste of time.
A rumor is not a rumor that doesn't die.
What?
Even if I was to let you talk to him, he won't talk to you. He's paranoid about being recorded and he knows the interrogation rooms are wired
No, no, no, no, no.
If it was a dope deal, where's the dope, if it was a hit, who called it in?
And I am sure you have a host of wild + theories to answer these questions.
That's crazy, Dave and it doesn't matter. He has total immunity and his story checks out. He doesn't know what you want to know.
His name was Arturo Marquez. A petty smuggler out of Argentina. He was arrested in New York last year for trafficking. He escaped to California and got picked up in Long Beach. They were setting up his extradition when he escaped again. Get this - Edie Finneran was called in to advise the proceedings.
Verbal, you know we're trying to help you.
Sure. And I appreciate that. And I want to help you, Agent Kujan. I like cops. I would have liked to have been a Fed myself but my C.P. was -
Verbal, I know you know something. I know you're not telling us everything.
I know you liked Keaton I know you think he was a good man.
I know he was good.
Sure. Fifteen years ago, but he was a good thief Anyway, the cops wouldn't let him go legit.
You trying to get a rise out of me, Agent Kujan?
According to your statement you are a short-con operator. Run of the mill seams. Everything you do, you learned from somebody else.
That's been suppressed. Anything in there is inadmissible.
Oh, I know. Sweet deal you have. Total immunity .
Well I do have the weapons charge. I'm looking at six whole months hard time.
You know a dealer named Ruby Deemer, Verbal?
You know a religious guy named John Paul?
You know Ruby is in Attica?
He didn't have my lawyer.
There's nothing in there about Ruby.
The first thing I learned on the job, know what it was? How to spot a murderer. Let's say you arrest three guys for the same killing. Put them all in jail overnight. The next morning, whoever is sleeping is your man. If you're guilty, you know you're caught, you get some rest - let your guard down, you follow?
No.
I'11 get right to the point. I'm smarter than you. I'11 find out what I want to know and I'11 get it from you whether you like it or not.
Heartwarming. Really, I feel weepy.
You wanted to know what happened after the line-up, I'm telling you.
Oh come on, Verbal. Who do you think you're talking to? You really expect me to believe he retired? For a woman? Bullshit. He was using her.
He loved her.
That was all Fenster and McManus.
You keep trying to lay this whole ride on t Keaton. It wasn't like that. Sure he knew, but Edie had him all turned around. r I'm telling you straight, I swear. +
Let me tell you something. I know Dean Keaton. I've been investigating him for three years. The guy I know is a cold- + blooded bastard. L.A.P.D. indicted him on three counts of murder before he was kicked off the force, so don't sell me the hooker with the heart of gold. +
You got him wrong.
I don't know about that.
I don't think you do. But you say you saw Keaton die. I think you're covering his ass and he's still out there somewhere. I think he was behind that whole circus in the harbor. My bet is he's using you because you're stupid and you think he's your friend. You tell me he's dead, so be it. I want to make sure he's
He wasn't behind anything. It was the lawyer.
You think I don't know you held out on the D.A.? What did you leave out of that testimony? I can be on the phone to Ruby Deemer in ten minutes.
The D.A. gave me immunity.
There was a lawyer. Kobayashi.
Is he the one that killed Keaton?
No. But I'm sure Keaton's dead.
So this lawyer...
Kobayashi.
Came from Redfoot.
Right.
Do you believe in him, Verbal?
I came clean. I told it like it happened on the boat. So what if I left out how I got there? It's got so many holes in it, the D.A. would've told me to blow amnesty out my ass. So you got what you wanted out of me. Big fucking deal.
And this is why you never told the D.A.
You tell me, Agent Kujan. If I told you the Loch Ness Monster hired me to hit the harbor, what would you say?
I've got immunity now. What can you possibly offer me?
If there is a Keyser Soze he'll be looking for you.
Where's your head, Agent Kujan? Where do you think the pressure's coming from? Keyser Soze - or whatever you want to call him - knows where I am right now. He's got the front burner under' your ass to let me go so he can scoop me up ten minutes later. Immunity was just to deal with you assholes. I got a whole new
So why play into his hands? We can protect you.
That was how I ended up in a barber shop quartet in Skokie, Illinois.
This is totally irrelevant.
Oh, but it's not. If I hadn't been nailed in Illinois for running a three card monte in between sets, I never would have took off for New York. I never would have met Keaton, see. That barber shop quartet was the reason for everything.
Can we just get back to Kobayashi?
You're stalling, Verbal.
Give a guy a break, huh?
Then what?
McManus was furious. He was talking about tracking him down and ripping his heart out and all sorts of shit. That night we got the call.
What call?
I wanted to. I thought we could make it.
Why didn't you say anything?
A man in a suit with a slim build. Tall.
Wait a minute.
Don't shine me, Verbal. No more stalling. You know what I'm getting at.
I don't.
TRY TO REEF LYING TO ME NOW. I KNOW EVERYTHING .
I don't know what you're talking about.
I don't understand what you're saying. I saw Keaton get shot, I swear to you.
Then why didn't you help him?
I WAS AFRAID, OKAY? Somehow, I was sure it was Keyser Soze at that point. I couldn't bring myself to raise my gun to him.
But Keaton...
He was a stool pigeon for the Justice Department. He swore out a statement to Federal Marshals that he had seen and could positively identify one Keyser Soze and had intimate knowledge of his business, including, but not exclusive to, drug trafficking and murder.
I never heard of him.
His own people were selling him to a gang of Hungarians. Most likely the same Hungarians that Sate all but wiped out back in Turkey. The money wasn't there for dope. The Hungarians were going to buy the one guy that could finger Soze for them.
But Keaton had. Edie Finneran was his extradition advisor. She knew who he was and what he knew.
I don't
There were no drugs on that boat. It was a hit. A suicide mission to whack out the one man that could finger Keyser Soze so Sate had a few thieves put to it. Men he knew he could march into certain death.
Verbal, he left you behind for a reason. If you all knew Soze could find you anywhere, why was he ready to send you off with the money when he could have used you to take the boat?
He wanted me to live.
Why did he want you to live? A one-time dirty cop without a loyalty in the world finds it in his heart to save a worthless rat-cripple? No, sir. Why'
Edie.
I don't buy that reform story for a minute. And even if I did, I certainly don't believe he would send you to protect her. So why?
Because he was my friend.
No...
Keaton was Keyser Soze
NO, NO, NO, NO, NO.
Edie...
He used all of you to get him on that boat. He couldn't get on alone and he had to pull the trigger himself to make sure he got his man. The one man that could identify him.
This is all bullshit.
He left you to stay behind and tell us he was dead. You saw him die, right? Or did you? You had to hide when the first police cars showed up. You heard the shot, just before the fire but you didn't see him die.
I knew him. He would never -
If he's dead, Verbal - if what you say is true, then it won't matter. It was his idea to hit the Taxi Service in New York, wasn't it? Tell me the truth.
I didn't know. I saw him die. I believe he's dead. Christ
Why lie about everything else, then?
You're not safe on your own.
You think he's..?
Is he Keyser Soze I don't know, Verbal. It seems to me that Keyser Sate is a shield. Like you said, a spook story, but I know Keaton - and someone out there is pulling strings for you. Stay here and let us protect you.
I'm not bait. No way. I post today.
You posted twenty minutes ago. Captain Leo wants you out of here a.s.a.p., unless you turn state's.
I'11 take my chances, thank you. It's tougher to buy the cheapest bag-man than it is to buy a cop.
Where are you going to go, Verbal? You gonna run? Turn states evidence. You might never see trial. If somebody wants to get you, you know They'll get you out there.
My client offers his full cooperation in these proceedings. In exchange, his testimony is to be sealed and all matters incriminating to himself are to be rendered inadmissible.
The district attorney's office will comply provided -
No provisions, nothing. My clients testimony for his immunity.
May-I be frank, Counselor? I suspect your political power as much as I respect it. I don't know why Mr. Kint has so many faceless allies in City Hall, and I don't care. The embarrassment he helped cause the city of New York will not happen here.
Counselor, I will prosecute your client.
I'11 take my chances then. I'11 feel safer without a job if a man like Mr. Kint is behind bars.
Mr. Kint will plead guilty to weapons possession.
You're joking.
Weapons. Misdemeanor one.
Counselor, you're insulting me.
Mr. Abraham...
Abrams...
Abrams. Yes. How are you today?
I'm fine.
Good. You ever been inside a hospital?
Yes.
Why did he go to see Mary Rooney?
She's the only nurse who isn't testifying for the Doctors.
What did he find?
Nothing.
How good's your intelligence?
Very good.
And so what is the rest of his case aside from Dr. Thompson?
He was accused of jury tampering.
Accused. Not indicted. He resigned the firm. Divorced nineteen seventy. Galvin worked with Michael Morrissey until Morrissey retired in 'seventy-eight. Since then he's been on his own. Four cases before the Circuit Court. He lost them all. He drinks.
Four cases in three years ...
The man's an ambulance chaser ...
... tell me about this case.
This is a nuisance suit. He's looking for small change. He's asking for six hundred thousand and betting we don't want to go to court.
No -- we don't want this case in court.
Neither does he. That's where he loses. This man's scared to death to go to court. We only have to call his bluff.
I want to settle this thing and be done with it. I don't want the Archdiocese exposed.
No. Absolutely, and we're going to see that it is not.
So what I want to do is stop it here. I'm going to make him an offer. I want to do it myself. I want it to come from me.
If we were to go to trial, would we win the case?
Well, of course, it's always dangerous ...
I know that answer. If we went to trial would we win?
It's a generous offer, Mr. Galvin... ...nothing can make the woman well...but we try to compensate...to make a gesture...
How did you settle on the amount?
We thought it was just.
You thought it was just.
Yes.
Because it struck me how neatly 'three' went into the amount. Two Hundred Ten Thousand. That would mean I keep seventy.
That was our insurance company's recommendation.
Nothing that we can do can make that woman well.
And no one will know the truth.
What is the truth?
What are you doing here?
... here's your mail, call Mrs. Doneghy ...
... yes. Get her on the phone ...
... that was a Dr. David Gruber's office ...
Gruber...
... he wants to testify ...?
It looks that way.
You know what that would mean? To get somebody from a Boston hospital to say he'll testify?
This is going to drive the ante up.
That's the call that I'm waiting for.
What does it mean?
They want to settle. It means a lot of money.
No, actually, she was referred to me. She was Dr. Hagman's patient...
Whatever the `truth' is, let's hear that. You were her doctor.
Yes.
Say it.
I was her doctor.
You were the anesthesiologist at her delivery May twelfth, nineteen seventy...
...I was one of a group of...
Answer affirmatively. Simply. Keep those answers to three words. You weren't `part of a group,' you were her anesthesiologist. Isn't that right?
Yes.
You were there to help Dr. Marx deliver her baby. Were you not?
Anything special about the case?
Thank you. When Debby...
Dr. Towler, who was in the operating room with you?
Mary Rooney, the obstetrical nurse...
What did these people do when her heart stopped?
We went to Code Blue...
`Code Blue,' what does that mean...?
It's a common medical expression, it's a crash program to restore the heartbeat. Dr. Marx cut an airway in her trachea, to get her oxygen, her and the baby...Ms.Nevins...
Why wasn't she getting oxygen...?
Well, many reasons, actually...
Tell me one?
She'd aspirated vomitus into her mask...
...and her heart stopped and she wasn't getting oxygen.
That's right.
And what did your team do...
Well, we...
...You brought thirty years of medical experience to bear. Isn't that what you did?
Yes.
...A patient riddled with complications, questionable information on her, on her admitting form...
...We did everything we could...
...to save her and to save the baby. Is that...
Yes!
You reached down into death. Now, isn't that right?
My God, we tried to save her...You can't know...You can't know...
Ed Concannon.
Objection, we've...
...to get her heartbeat back...?
We've touched on this, his own witness has said...
...almost nine minutes... causing brain damage.
Objection!
Dr. Thompson, just so the Jury knows, you never treated Deborah Ann Kaye. Is that correct?
That is correct. I was engaged to render an opinion.
Engaged to render an opinion. For a price. Is that correct? You're being paid to be here today?
Just as you are, Sir...
Are you board-certified in anesthesiology, Doctor?
No, I am not. It's quite common in New York State...
...I'm sure it is, but this is Massachusetts, Doctor. Certified in Internal Medicine?
No.
Neurology?
No.
Orthopedics?
I'm just an M.D.
Do you know Dr. Robert Towler...?
I know of him.
How is that?
Through, through his book.
What book is that?
Meth...Methodology and Technique...
...of Anesthesiology?
`Methodology and Techniques of Anesthesiology.' Yes.
How old are you?
I am seventy-four years old.
Uh-huh. Still practice a lot of medicine?
I'm on the staff of...
Yes, we've heard that. Doctor: you testify quite a bit against other physicians? Isn't that right? You, you're available for that? When you're paid to be there?
Sir. Yes. When a thing is wrong...as in this case, I am available. I am seventy-four years old, I am not board-certified. I have been practicing medicine for forty-six years and I know when an injustice has been done.
I did.
Your Honor, Bishop Brophy and the Archdiocese have offered plaintiff two hundred and ten thousand dollars.
Huh!
Mr. Concannon...?
Nothing further, your Honor.
Objection! This is ri...expect us to accept a photocopy, we have the original right...
No further questions.
Thank you, your Honor. We object to the copy of the admissions form as incompetemt and essentially hearsay evidence and cite McGee versus State of Indiana, U.S. 131 point 2 and 216 through 25 of the Uniform Code: 'The admission of a duplicate document in preference to an existing original must presuppose the possibility of alteration and so must be disallowed.' And, your Honor,
The document is disallowed, the jury will be advised not to consider the testimony of Kathy Costello regarding the Xerox form. It's unsubstantiated and we can't accept a copy in preference to the original...
Thank you, your Honor. Further: Ms. Costello is a rebuttal witness. As a `Surprise Witness' she may only serve to rebut direct testimony. As her only evidentiary rebuttal was the admitting form, which has been disallowed I request that her entire testimony be disallowed and the jury advised that they must totally disregard her appearance here.
You are aware of the penalties for perjury...?
It's a crime.
Yes. It is a crime. A serious crime.
I wouldn't do it.
You would not...?
No.
In fact, you've just taken an oath that you would not commit perjury. You've just sworn to that. Isn't that right?
Yes.
Just now...
Yes.
...sworn before God you would tell the truth?
Yes.
Now. I'd like to ask you something: four years ago, when you were working as a nurse, are you aware that Drs. Towler and Marx based their treatment of Deborah Ann Kaye on this chart that you signed . . . ?
I . . ..
And wasn't that an oath...? These are your initials here: K.C. When you signed this chart you took an oath. No less important than that which you took today. Isn't that right? Isn't that right...?
I...yes.
Then, please, which is correct? You've sworn today the patient ate one hour ago. Four years ago you swore she ate nine hours ago? Which is the lie. When were you lying?
I...
They lied.
`They lied.' Indeed! When did they lie? And do you know what a lie is?
I do. Yes.
You swore on this form that the patient ate nine hours ago.
That's not my handwriting.
You've just said you signed it.
Yes, I, yes, I signed it, yes. But I, I didn't write that figure.
You didn't write that figure. And how is it that you remember that so clearly after four years?
...what in the world would induce you to make a photocopy of some obscure record and hold it fouryears? This is a...why? Why would you do that?
I thought I would need it.
And why, please tell us, would you think that?
Please sit down. I told your wife. I'm sorry that we have to meet out here. I've got a case coming in two days in the Superior Court and my office is a mess of papers.
... that's all right.
...the Archdiocese called up, they said who was our attorney, 'cause the case is coming to trial...
I doubt we'll have to go to trial ...
... we told them we didn't want it to come out this way.
I completely understand ...
What is this going to cost?
You said you're gonna call me up. You didn't call me up. Who do you think you are? Who do you think you are...?
Hold on a second.
It's all right, Mickey.
You ruined my life, Mister...Me and my wife...and I am going to ruin yours... You don't have to go out there to see that girl. We been going four years. Four years...my wife's been crying herself to sleep what they, what, what they did to her sister.
I swear to you I wouldn't have turned the offer down unless I thought that I could win the case...
What you thought!? What you thought...I'm a workingman, I'm trying to get my wife out of town, we hired you, we're paying you, I got to find out from the other side they offered two hundred...
I'm going to win this case...Mist...Mr. Doneghy...I'm going to the Jury with a solid case, a famous doctor as an expert witness, and I'm going to win eight hundred thousand dollars.
If I could accept the offer right now, I would. They took it back.
They gave her the wrong anesthetic.
Why is that?
Her sister said she ate one hour prior to admittance...she...
...that's what the sister said. The chart said she ate nine hours prior to...
...she went in complaining of stomach cramps. Good doctor would have doubted the information on the chart.
Is that what a good doctor would do? How old are you, please?
I am seventy-four years old.
What qualifies you as an expert in anesthetics?
I am on the staff of...
Easthampton Hospital for Women. Excuse me, what is that, a joke? Let me tell you something, Doctor, those men at Catherine Laboure. Men who are known not only in this city, but the world, were trying to save a woman's life. They were there, and here you are, four years later, read some hospital report, and say...
She getting good care over there?
Actually, yes. It's by no means bad, I...
Then what good would it do to ruin the reputation of two men, to help a girl whose life's not going to be changed in the least? You know what CODE BLUE means?
'Code Blue'...
Are you saying that a failure to restore the heartbeat within nine minutes in itself constitutes bad medical practice?
I...in that small context I would have...I would have to say 'no.'
Then you're saying there's no negligence, based on my question?
I...given the limits of your question, that's correct.
The Doctors were not negligent.
Dr. Thompson...?
I have some errands to run, and then I thought we'd spend the evening...
That's what I'd planned to...
I'm going to take you to the home to see the girl...
From what I've seen, Mr. Galvin, you have a very good case...
Yes. Yes. I think so. I hope you'll be comfortable. I'm putting you up at my...
...I made a reservation at...
...apartment. No, no. Please. You don't know who we're dealing with, I, please believe me, they...
...What difference would...
These people play very rough. They don't want to lose this case. There's a lot of pressure they can bring to bear, I...
Dr. Thompson. From your review of the hospital records of May twelfth nineteen seventy-six. In your opinion, what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye?
Cardiac arrest. During delivery her heart stopped. When the heart stops the brain's deprived of oxygen. You get brain damage. That is why she's in the state she's in today.
Now, Dr. Towler's testified that they restored the heartbeat within three or four minutes. In your opinion is his estimate correct?
I didn't do too well for you.
No, you did fine.
I'm afraid that's not true. Will you want me to stay on till Monday?
No. No thank you, Doctor. You go home.
You know...sometimes people can surprise you. Sometimes they have a great capacity to hear the truth.
You sure you don't want me to stay on.
Dr. Towler; page 406, 'Contraindications to general anaesthetic. Ideally a patient should refrain from taking nourishment up to nine hours prior to induction of general anaesthetic.' Does that sound familiar?
'Practice and Methodology in Anaesthesia.' General textbook on the subject. Is that correct?
I. Yes. It is.
And you wrote that...
Yes.
...Page 414, 'If a patient has taken nourishment within one hour prior to inducement, general anaesthetic should be avoided at all costs because of the grave risk the patient will aspirate food particles into his mask.' Is that what happened to Deborah Ann Kaye? She aspirated into her mask?
She threw up in her mask, yes. But she hadn't eaten one hour prior to admission.
If she had eaten, say one hour prior to admission, the inducement of a general anaesthetic...the type you gave her... would have been negligent...?
Negligent. Yes...it would have been criminal. But that was not the case.
Dr. Gruber ...
I appreciate--a man as busy as--
I read the hospital report on your client.
... Deborah Ann Kaye ...
They called, they're going to settle, what I want to do is build up as much ...
Right. Who called?
The Archdiocese called, they want to settle ... her estate ...
... and you're going to do that?
Yes.
Yes.
Uh ... in the, well, in the interests of her family ... you, Dr. Gruber, you know, you can never tell what a jury is going to do. St. Catherine's a very well thought of institution. Her doctors ...
Her doctors killed her.
) I'm sorry ...?
Her doctors murdered her. They gave her the wrong anaesthetic and they put her in the hospital for life. Her doctors murdered her.
Do you know who her doctors were?
I read the file. Yeah. Marx and Towler. I know who they were.
The most respected ...
The hospital is owned by the Archdioceses of ...
Well, well, when can we meet again. I'd like to get a deposition..
We have to ... we ... we have to keep you under wraps. Please don't, don't discuss ...
I understand.
Thank you ...
... that's perfectly all right.
Uh, why, why are you doing this?
I'm Joe Galvin, I'm representing Deborah Ann Kaye, case against St. Catherine Laboure.
I told the guy I didn't want to talk to...
I'll just take a minute. Deborah Ann Kaye. You know what I'm talking about. The case is going to trial. Our chief witness is a Dr. David Gruber, you know who he is?
No.
He's the Assistant Chief of Anesthesiology, Massachusetts Commonwealth. He says your doctors, Towler and Marx, put my girl in the hospital for life. And we can prove that. What we don't know is why. What went on in there? In the O.R. That's what we'd like to know. Something went wrong. And you know what it was. They gave her the wrong anesthetic. What
...you got your doctor's testimony. Why do you need me?
I want someone who was in the O.R. We're going to win the case, there's no question of that. It's just a matter of how big...
I've got nothing to say to you.
You know what happened.
Nothing happened.
I can subpoena you, you know. I can get you up there on the stand.
And ask me what?
Who put my client in the hospital for life.
I didn't do it, Mister.
Who are you protecting, then?
Who says that I'm protecting anyone?
I do. Who is it? The Doctors. What do you owe them?
I don't owe them a goddamn thing.
Then why don't you testify?
You know, you're pushy, fella...
You think I'm pushy now, wait 'til I get you on the stand...
Yessir. I'm sorry.
Why is that?
Now, have you boys tried to resolve your little difficulty because that certainly would save the Commonwealth a lot of time and bother.
This is a complicated case, your Honor...
I'm sure it is, Frank: and let me tell you something. If we find it so complex, how in the hell you think you're going to make a jury understand it? See my point? Let's talk a minute. Frank: what will you and your client take right now this very minute to walk out of here and let this damn thing drop?
My client can't walk, your Honor.
That's it...? Come on, guys...life is too short... You tell me if you're playing 'chicken,' or you mean it. Frank: I don't think I'm talking out of school, but I just heard someone offer you two hundred grand...and that's a lot of money...and if I may say, you haven't got the best of records.
...things change.
...that's true. Sometimes they change, sometimes they don't. Now, I remember back to when you were disbarred...
I wasn't disbarred, they dropped the pro...
And it seems to me, a fella's trying to come back, he'd take this settlement, and get a record for himself. I myself would take it and run like a thief.
What is it?
Thank you for seeing me.
I need an extension for my case.
You should have taken their offer. Especially if you were unprepared.
I had a witness disappear on me.
That happens.
I could subpoena him if I had a week.
Is the Plaintiff ready?
Ready, your Honor.
Do we have time this morning to... All right. Mr. Galvin, you want to continue now, or we can resume with Dr. Thompson this afternoon.
Sustained. Yes. The witness will confine his testimony to review of the hospital records.
What?
Yes, Mr. Galvin?
If I may be permitted to question my own witness in my own way...
I got a letter from the Judge Advocate's office on you today, fella, you're on your way out...They should have kicked you out on that Lillibridge case. Now this is it today.
I'm an attorney on trial before the bar. Representing my client. My client, do you understand? You open your mouth and you're losing my case for me.
Listen to me, fella...
Galvin, look, many years ago...
And don't give me this shit, 'I was a lawyer, too.' 'Cause I know who you were. You couldn't hack it as a lawyer. You were Bag Man for the Boys and you still are. I know who you are.
Are you done?
Damn right I'm done. I'm going to ask for a mistrial and I'm going to request that you disqualify yourself from sitting on this case. I'm going to take a transcript to the State and ask that they impeach your ass.
Nothing further, your Honor...
I object, your Honor...
Overruled...
Exception!
Continental Casualty...
Mr. Alito, please.
Business hours are over, Sir. This is the switch...
I have to reach him. This is an emergency. Could you give me his home number?
I'm sorry, Sir, we're not allowed...
...Would you, would you call him up. I'll give you my number, and ask him...
I can't guarantee that...
Mr. Galvin's...
Hello, I'm calling from...
If you're selling something, I'm late for work...
I'm calling from Professional Nurse Quarterly...
From the magazine?
This is Mr. Wallace in Subscriptions?
How come you're calling me from...?
This is Miss Costello...?
Yes. Price...
Pardon?
Kathy Price.
We find that your subscription lapsed...
My subscription lapsed three years ago...
That's why I'm calling, Miss Price...
Missus...
We have a renew-your-subscription offer...
We get it at work. We get the magazine at work.
Yes, we know that you do. I have it in my files. That's at the Manhattan Health Center...
D'you find an apartment?
Still looking.
I changed my life today. What did you do?
I changed my room at the Hotel.
Why?
The TV didn't work.
What Hotel are you staying at?
And what are you? A cop?
I'm a lawyer.
My ex-husband was a lawyer.
Really. How wonderful for you.
Yes. It was, actually.
Oh, actually it was. Then why'd you call it off?
Who says I'm the one that called it off?
A brick house says you divorced him. I'll put you on your honor. Bet you a hundred dollars against you join me for dinner. And I'll take your word for it. Now you tell me the truth. Because you cannot lie to me. What's your name?
Laura.
My name's Frank. And furthermore, you came back to see me tonight.
What if it wasn't you that I came back to see?
The weak, the weak have got to have somebody to fight for them. Isn't that the truth? You want another drink?
Jimmy! That's why the court exists. The court doesn't exist to give them justice, eh? But to give them a chance at justice.
And are they going to get it?
They might. Yes. That's the point ...is that they might...you see, the jury wants to believe. They're all cynics, sure, because they want to believe. I have to go in there tomorrow to find twelve people to hear this case. I'm going to see a hundred people and pick twelve. And every one of them it's written on their face, `This is a sham.
Maybe what?
Maybe I can do something right.
And is that what you're going to do? Is that what you're going to do...?
Would you like me to leave...? Is this a bad time --?
What...?
Is this a bad time.
We, we...No...we just had a small reversal in the case... I have some, uh...I have some work to do...
What happened...?
They, uh, they got to my witness.
I've got to work...
Do you want me to go...?
Why don't you get some rest?
I've got to work.
You can't work if you can't think. You get in bed. It's all right. I'll stay here with you. It's all right. Come on...
You're going to stay here...?
Do you think it's my fault?
Isn't there something you...
That's not the question. It's over. Do you think that it's my fault? If I'd...if I'd...I never should have taken it. There was no way that I was going to win.
You're talking like a drunk.
And it's over...?
Yes.
Well, then what are you doing here?
I...do you want me to leave?
You do what you want. You want to leave...You want to go kill yourself?
I...
You want me to tell you it's your fault? It probably is. What are you going to do about it? I thought it's not over till the jury comes in.
Who told you that?
You told me so. Maybe you'd get some sympathy. You came to the wrong place.
And what makes you so tough?
Maybe I'll tell you later.
Is there going to be a later...?
Not if you don't grow up...
If I don't 'grow up...'
You're like a kid, you're coming in here like it's Saturday night, you want me to say that you've got a fever -- you don't have to go to school...
You, you don't under...
Oh, yes, I do, Joe. Believe me. You say you're going to lose. Is it my fault? Listen! The damned case doesn't start until tomorrow and already it's over for you!
It's over!
What is your wife's picture doing by the side of your...
What is that to you...?
Joe... Joe...
You're pressuring yourself...
No...no...
Is it over?
No.
What are you going to do?
Thank you.
I have to talk to you.
Dr. Gruber.
Dr. Gruber's not in.
I had an appointment at his office, I think I must have got it wrong. We had a meeting...
He's not in, Sir.
I...please. My wife...my wife's prescription has run out. If I can call him...
Dr. Halpern's taking all his...
No, no, no. I have to talk to him. If I can only call him..
Hi, Mickey ...
What the hell do you think you're doing ...? What's going on here ...?
Uh ...
Fuck you. I got a call today from Sally Doneghy ...
... now who is that ...?
... You're 'sposed to be in court in ten days and she's telling me you haven't even met with them ...
Sally Doneghy, now who is that?
One lousy letter eighteen months ago. . . .I try to throw a fuckin' case your way ...
... hey, I don't need your charity ...
I have to talk to you.
What do you want?
Come on. Let's get a drink.
Are you out of your mind...?
...I'm going to need your help...
You need my help...? You need a goddamn keeper...are you telling me that you turned down two-hundred- ten grand? Huh...? Are you nuts? Eh? Are you nuts. What are you going to do, bring her back to life?
I'm going to help her.
To do what...? To do what, for chrissake...? To help her to do what? She's dead...
They killed her. And they're trying to buy it...
Mick. Mick. Mick...
What?
You -- Listen: you said to me, `if not now, when...'
I know what I said but not now. You won it. Franky. You won it. When they give you the money, that means that you won. We don't want to go to court -- is this getting to you...? You know who the attorney is for the Archdiocese, Eddie Concannon.
...he's a good man...
...he's a good man...? He's the Prince of Fuckin' Darkness...he'll have people in there testifying that the broad is well -- they saw her Tuesday on a surfboard at Hyannis...don't fuck with this case.
...I have to stand up for her...
Frank, but not now. Frank. You're trying to wipe out some old business. But not now. I understand. But you go call 'em back. You call the Bishop back.
We've got her sister. Testifies she had a meal one hour before she was admitted to the hospital. This is the point.
You got the admittance form says patient ate nine hours prior to admittance.
Admittance form is wrong.
Forget it. You can't prove it. Sister's testimony is no good. Jury knows we win she gets the cash.
I've got my Dr. Gruber, says her heart condition means they gave her the wrong anaesthetic anyway, plus she came in complaining of stomach pains...
...Gruber's not bad.GALVIN Not bad...? This guy's Dr. Kildare, the jury's going to love him, Mick... And you calm down, all right? Their guy, Towler's, the author of the book, 'Methodology and Practice, Anesthesiology.' ...and they got depositions from the nurses, everybody in the operating room, the scrub-nurse...'All these guys are God. I saw them walk on water...'
They had an obstetrical nurse in there. We got a deposition from the obstetrical nurse?
No.
'Mary Rooney, forty-nine. Lives in Arlington, still working at the hospital.' Can you get out tomorrow? How come she isn't speaking up.
Right.
Okay now. Cases: Smith versus State of Michigan.
Right.
Brindisi versus Electric Boat.
You got a good memory, Franky.
Jimmy? Bushmills. Lookit, do me a favor. I'll buy you a drink tomorrow.
Yeah? And what are you going to do tonight?
Been a long time, huh...?
I'm getting it back. Don't worry about me, Mick. I'm fine. D'you find the obstetric nurse?
So what?
So what...? The best is yet to come. Check the TV Guide. They got our Dr. Towler on a panel on GBH on Friday: 'The Healing Hand. The Experts Speak.'
What I'm saying, they're getting some help.
John: gimme a cuesta-ray.
Oh shit, what's today?
Today is Tuesday. What?
I've got to go see Gruber. What's the best cigars you have?
Give 'em a box of Macanudos.
What happened, Joey...?
I can't talk now.
Yeah? How's our new witness?
D'you find the obstetric nurse?
She's workin' the late shift at the Hospital. She's at home now, I'm going over there to talk to...
How are you holding up?
I'm swell.
And all we've got is a witch doctor!
Okay. What do you do when you don't have a witness?
You use their witness.
That's right.
Are you with me...are you awake...?
Yeah. I'm awake.
Rooney's protecting someone. Who is she protecting?
The Doctors.
She's protecting the Doctors she'd be up there on the stand...
`You guys are a bunch of whores...uh...loyalty...you don't care who gets hurt...you don't have any loyalty...'
...one of the other nurses?
Who? They're all testifying. Everybody who was in the O.R.'s going to take the stand.
All right. Who wasn't in the O.R.?
Uh...the admitting nurse...
What did she do?
She didn't do anything. She took the patient's history and signed the charts. 'K.C.' 'Kathy Costello...'
The 'History'...?
We don't have anything from the Nurse Association?
The broad has disappeared...
...yeah...good...
...four years ago...
Hello. This is Mr. Dorchester in Records. We're looking for Kathy Costello...
What the hell are you doing here?
What are you doing in New York...?
I talked to Johnnie White at the Bar Association. The broad used to work for one of Concannon's partners in New York awhile ago. She wanted to move to Boston. How badly did she hurt us, Joe?
We got a mistrial, you know. Joe -- did you hear what I said...?
I'm ... Mrs. Doneghy? I'm Frank Galvin ... why didn't you go in?
It's locked.
It's not a good case. It's a very good case. A healthy young woman goes into the hospital to deliver her third child, she's given the wrong anaesthetic ...
... we, we love her, Dick and me ...
... I'm sure you do ...
But what can we do? She don't know who's visiting her ...
... I know. I went ...
... You saw her?
Yes. Yes, I have.
You know how beautiful she was? Her husband left her, and he took her kids .... They, they, they'd let you die in there. They don't care. Nobody cares. The Patriot Home, the Chronic Care ... in Arlington ...? They'd take her in. Perpetual care. They'd take her. Fifty thousand dollars they want. An endowment.
... fifty thousand dollars?
I don't want to leave her. Dick ...the, the ... and Father Laughlin, he said that it was God's will ...
... I understand ...
My doctor told me that I got to move out West ... that's when we filed in court. We didn't want to sue ...
... I understand ...
He saw her at the Northern Care...
We just can't do it anymore. This is our chance to get away.
What does it mean? I...I mean we, you have other tactics...
We, yes. Yes. They, they present their side, and I get the same chance. To cross-examine... to... to...
Are we going to win? We have, you know, other tactics, though...
I spoke to her, and everything is all right.
I, what are you talking about? I talked to her this morning, and she said...
She told me.
She did?
I just saw her.
In New York?
What?
Hi.
I've been meaning to come in a long time.
You live in the neighborhood?
Uh-huh. My nephew's going to be staying with us in a few months, so I stopped by.
How old is he?
Thank you.
You're really... You, are you the one they told me was the nurse?
Who told you that?
Mrs...
Mrs. Simmonds.
Yes.
I used to be a nurse.
Kathy Price...
Yes...
You were the Admitting Nurse at St. Catherine Laboure Hospital on May twelfth, nineteen seventy-six, the night Deborah Ann Kaye was admitted...
Yes.
These are your initials, 'K.C.'?
D'you ask the patient when did she last eat?
Yes.
What did she say?
She said she had a full meal one hour before coming to the hospital.
One hour.
Yes.
And did you write the numeral `one' down on the record, standing for one hour?
I did.
A single hour.
Another, Frank . . . ?
I want to buy you a drink.
Well, well, well. Huh?
Yeah.
It's a long road that has no turning.
Dr. Towler...
Yes.
You have a record of what happened in the operating room...
Yes, that's correct.
...there are notations every thirty seconds...
Yes.
...of the procedures...
Yes, the roving nurse...
But those notations stop... ...four-and-one-half minutes after Deborah Ann Kaye's...
We, we were rather busy...
Four-and-one-half minutes after her heart stopped. And they resume seven minutes...
As I've said we had some more...
...they start again three minutes earlier...
We had rather more important things on our mind than taking notes. We were trying to restore her...
What happened in those three...
...we were trying to restore her heartbeat.
What happened in those three minutes...?
We'd gone to 'Code Blue,' we were administering electro...
Brain damage could have been...it didn't necessarily take nine minutes, it could have been caused in two...
Wait, wait, wait, you're saying that her brain damage could have been caused by her being deprived of oxygen for two minutes...?
Yes.
Huh. And why is that?
Franky can't make it. He had an appointment he forgot, he's going to see you later. I'm Mickey Morrissey, we're supposed to get to know each other.
How'm I doing so far?
Stearns, Harrington, you know who that is?
Should I?
A huge law firm. Okay? They put him in the firm, he's married, everything's superb. Franky, he's starting to talk like he comes from Dorsetshire, some fuckin' place, 'You must drop by with Pat and me...' Okay...?
Yes.
...and he's making a billion dollars every minute working for Stearns, Harrington, and he bought a dog, and everything is rosy. Then Mr. Stearns, he tried to fix a case.
The Big Boy did...?
That Frank was working on. Yeah. He thought Franky needed some help, so they bribed a juror. So Franky finds out. He comes to me in tears. He thinks that anybody who knows what a 'spinnaker' is got to be a saint. I told him ' Franky, wake up. These people are sharks. What do you think they got so rich from? Doing good?'
Huh.
Before he can get there here comes this Federal Marshal, and Franky's indicted for Jury tampering, they throw him in jail, he's gonna be disbarred, his life is over. Jimmy, gimme another drink. How are you?
Me, too.
Doctor, how long is it going to take you to pull him out of this?
It is hard to say. Six months, at least. Perhaps a year. It depends to a certain extent on him.
He won't talk.
No. We have ways of digging out knowledge. But it takes longer. He is suffering from acute melancholia, together with a guilt complex. He blames himself for what happened to the woman. And we know little of the background.
I can give you one thing: he was in love with her.
Ah? That complicates the problem.
How'd you get into the shipbuilding business, Gavin?
Interesting business.
No, to be honest, I find it dull.
You don't have to do it for a living.
No. But one assumes obligations. My wife's family is all gone; someone has to look after her interest. Her father's partner runs the company yard in the East -- Baltimore -- so I decided as long as I had to work at it, I'd come back here. I've always liked it here.
How long have you been back?
Almost a year.
And you like it.
Like all this.
Shouldn't you be sitting down?
No, I'm all right.
I was sorry to read about that thing in the papers. And you've quit the force. A permanent physical disability?
Would you like a drink now?
Not what you think. We're very happily married.
Then?
I'm afraid some harm may come to her.
From whom?
Scottie, do you believe that someone out of the past, someone dead, can enter and take possession of a living being?
No.
If I told you I believe that his happened to my wife, what would you say?
I'd say you'd better take her to the nearest psychiatrist, psychologist, neurologist, psychoanalyst, or plain family doctor. And have him check you both.
I didn't mean to be that rough.
No, it sounds idiotic, I know. And you're still the hard-headed Scot, aren't you? Always were. Do you think I'm making it up?
No.
I'm not making it up. I wouldn't know how. She'll be talking to me about something, nothing at all, and suddenly the words fade into silence and a cloud comes into her eyes and they go blank... and she is somewhere else, away from me... someone I don't know. I call to her and she doesn't hear. And then with a long sigh she
How often does this happen?
More and more in the past few weeks. And she wanders. God knows where she wanders. I followed her one day.
Watched her come out of the apartment, someone I didn't know... walking in a different way... holding her head in a way I didn't know; and get into her car, and drive out to... Golden Gate Park. Five miles. She sat on a bench at the edge of the lake and stared across the water to the old pillars that stand an the far
Well?
The speedometer of her car showed she had driven 94 miles that day. Where did she go? I have to know, Scottie. Where she goes and what she does, before I got involved with doctors.
Have you talked to the doctors at all?
Yes, but carefully. I'd want to know more before committing her to that kind of care. Scottie --
I can get you a firm of private eyes to follow her for you. They're dependable, good boys --
I want you.
It's not my line.
How can I see her, to know her?
We're going to an opening at the opera tonight. We'll dine at Ernie's first. Which is easier?
Ernie's.
You've done well, Scottie. You're good at your job.
That's Carlotta Valdes.
Yes.
There are things you didn't tell me.
I didn't know where she was going to lead you.
But you knew about this.
Something else. My wife, Madeleine, has several pieces of jewelry that belonged to Carlotta. She inherited them. Never wore them, they were too old-fashioned... until now. Now, when she is alone, she gets them out and looks at them handles them gently, curiously... puts them on and stares at herself in the mirror... and goes into that other world... is someone else again.
Carlotta Valdes was what: your wife's grandmother?
Great-grandmother. The child who was taken from her whose loss drove Carlotta mad and to her death - was Madeleine's grandmother.
Well, that explains it. Anyone could develop an obsession for the past, with a background like that.
But she doesn't know, about her background. She never heard of Carlotta Valdes.
Knows nothing of a grave out at Mission Dolores, or an old house an Eddy Street, or a portrait at the Palace of the Legion of Honor?
Nothing.
And when she goes to those places...
How do you know all these things she doesn't know?
Her mother told me most of then before she died. I dug out the rest for myself, here.
Why did she never tell her daughter?
He had no right to say that. It was my responsibility. You didn't know her. I shouldn't have got you involved.
I -- I --
Hello.
Scottie, what happened? She's not home, yet.
No, she's all right. She's still here. But I'll get her home soon.
What happened?
Hello?
Did she hurt herself?
Could I ask you a couple of questions?
What for? Who are you?
My name is John Ferguson, and --
Is this some kind of Gallup Poll, or something?
No, there are just a few things I want to ask you, and --
Do you live here in the hotel?
No, I happened to see you come in, and I thought --
No, please! I Just want to talk to you!
Listen, I'm going to yell in a minute!
Just let me talk to you.
What about?
You.
I've heard that one before, too. I remind you of someone you used to be madly in love with, but she ditched you for another guy, and you've been carrying the torch ever since, and then you saw me and something clicked. Huh!
You're not far wrong.
Well, it's not going to work. So you'd better go.
I warn you, I can yell awfully loud.
You won't have to.
What do you want to know?
Your name. And --
Judy Barton.
Who you are --
Just a girl, I work at Magnin's --
-- and how you happen to be living here.
It's a place to live, that's all.
But you haven't lived here long.
About three years.
No, a year ago! Where did you live a year ago!!?
I told you! Right here!
But before! Where did you live before!?!
Listen, what is this? What do you want?
I want to know who you are.
Will you have dinner with me?
Why?
Well, I feel I owe you something for all this...
No, you don't owe me anything.
Then will you for me?
Dinner... and what else?
Just dinner.
Because I remind you of her?
Well... I've been on blind dates before... Matter of fact, to be honest, I've been picked up before. Okay.
I'll get my car and be back in half an hour.
Oh, no! Give me time to change and get fixed up!
An hour?
Mmm.
Thank you again. Good-night.
Can I see you tomorrow?
Tomorrow night? Well --
Tomorrow morning.
Tomorrow m -- but I have to go to work. I've got a job.
Don't go.
And what will I live on? My oil wells in Texas?
I'll take care of you.
Oh, Well, thank very much. But no thanks.
No, Judy, you don't understand.
Oh, I understand, all right. I've been understanding since I was seventeen. And the next step is, as long as you're going to see me tomorrow, why don't you stay the night.
No.
No? Then what?
I just want to see you as much as I can!
As friends? We'd just see a lot of each other as friends, and you'd "take care of me"?
Yes.
Why? Because I remind you of someone? That's not very complimentary. And nothing would... happen...
No.
No, Judy, I'm not going to move! Please! Stay in the chair!
Why?!
Will you, Judy?
I like that one.
No, there. There's a good one. Do you like that?
Okay. Now we're going to buy you some clothes.
There's Ransohoff's. Nothing but the best. Come on.
But Scottie, you don't have to!
But I like that one, Scottie.
Scottie, what are you doing?
I'm trying to buy you a suit.
But I loved the second one she wore. And this one -- -- is beautiful.
They're none of them right.
You want me to dress like her?
Judy, I just want you to look nice. And I know what kind of suit would look well on you.
Ah, no!!! I don't want to be dressed like someone dead!
Judy --
Judy, it can't make much difference to you. I just want to see how you'd look and I know it won't be the same, but --
No, I don't want any clothes! I don't want anything! I want to get out of here!
I don't like it!
I wish you'd leave me alone. I want to go away.
You can.
Judy, I want to tell you: these few days have been the first happy days I've had in a year.
I know. Because I remind you of her. The one that's dead. And not even that, very much.
You don't even want to touch me.
The color of your hair...
Ah, no!
The trouble is, I'm gone now. For you. And I can't do anything about it. I want you to love me. If I let you change me, will that do it? If I do what you tell me, will you love me?
Yes.
Well?
It should be back from your face -- with a bun at the neck. I told them. I told you.
Where shall we go for dinner?
Wherever you'd like...
Ernie's?
You've got a thing about Ernie's, haven't you?
Mmmm.
Come here.
Oh, no. You'll muss me.
That's what I had in mind.
I'm suddenly hungry. Would you rather go somewhere else?
No, Ernie's is fine.
I've got it. He bends down and bites the back of her neck.
Oh! You're supposed to fasten it!
Scottie!
How does it work?
Can't you see?
We're going awfully far.
I feel like driving. Are you terrible hungry?
Where are you going?
Scottie, why are we here?
I told you. I have to go back into the past. Once more. For the last time.
But why? Why here?
No, I don't want to go. I want to stay here.
I need you.
Why?
I'm scared.
...We stood there and I kissed her for the last time. And she said, "If lose me, you'll know that I loved you --
Scottie --
And I couldn't follow her. God knows I tried. One doesn't often get a second chance. I want to stop being haunted. You're my second chances, Judy.
Take me away...
You look like Madeleine, now. Go up the stairs.
No!
We're going up the tower, Madeleine.
No! Let me go!
We're going up the tower.
You can't. You're afraid!
Scottie, please...!
But you knew, that day, that I wouldn't be able to follow you didn't you. Who was at the top when you got there? Elster? With his wife?
Yes!
And she was the one who died. Not you. The real wife. You were the copy, you were the counterfeit. Was she dead or alive when you got there?
Dead. He'd broken her neck.
Took no chances, did he? And when you got there, he pushed her off the tower, was that it? But you were the one who screamed. Why did you scream?
I wanted to stop it, I ran up to stop it --
Did he train you? Rehearse you? Teach you what to say and what to do?
Yes!
And you were such an apt pupil! What fun you two must have had, playing games with me! Why me? Why did he pick on me?!!
Your accident...
Ah, yes! I was a set-up. I was the made-to-order witness. Where is he now?
I don't know... Switzerland?
I made it.
What are you going to do?
Oh, Judy!! When he had all her money, and the freedom and the power... he ditched you? What a shame! But he knew he was safe. You couldn't talk. Didn't he give you anything?
Some money.
What are you going to do?
I loved you, Madeleine.
Love me... keep me safe...
Why am I here? What happened?
You don't remember.
No...
Do you remember where you were?
Oh, of course I remember that! But then I must have had a dizzy spell, and fainted!
Where were you?
...Old Port Point! Out at the Presidio! Of course I remember! I often go there!
Why?
Because I love it so. It's beautiful there. Especially at sunset. Ah... thank you for the fire.
Where had you been before?
When?
This afternoon.
Oh... wandering about.
Please drink your coffee.
I will. You're terribly direct in your questions.
I'm sorry. I didn't mean to be rude.
You're not. Merely direct. What were you doing there? At Old Fort Point?
Wandering about.
The Palace of the Legion of honor. The Art Gallery.
Lucky for me you were wandering about. Thank you again. I've been terrible bother to you.
When you... There were pins in my hair...
You shouldn't have brought me here, you know.
I... didn't know where you lived.
You could have looked in my car. Oh, but you didn't know my car, did you?
Yes, I knew which one it was. It's out there, now. But I didn't think you'd want to be brought home that way.
No, you are right, I'm glad you didn't take me home... I wouldn't have known you, to thank you... Oh, but I don't know you! And you don't know me! My name is Madeleine Elster.
My name is John Ferguson.
That's a good, strong name. Do your friends call you John? Or Jack.
John. Old friends. Acquaintances call me Scottie.
I shall call you Mr. Ferguson.
No, I wouldn't like that. And after what happened today I should think you could call me Scottie. Or even John.
I prefer John. There, that's done. And what do you do, John?
Wander about.
One shouldn't live alone.
Some people prefer it.
Will you tell me something? Has this ever happened to you before?
What?
No, never before. I've fallen into lakes, out of rowboats, when I was a little girl. And I fell into a river, once, trying to leap from one stone to another. But I've never fallen into San Francisco Bay. Have you? Ever before?
Oh! Yes. Hello.
Good morning. I worried about you, last night. You shouldn't have run like that.
I... suddenly felt such a fool.
I wanted to drive you home. Are you all right?
Oh, yes. Fine. No after effects. But as I remember now, that water was cold, wasn't it? What a terrible thing to do... and you were so kind... It's a formal thank-you letter. And a great big apology.
You've nothing to apologize for.
Oh, yes! The whole thing must have been so embarrassing for you!
-- talking to you...
Would you like some coffee?
I couldn't mail it; I didn't know your address. But I had a landmark. I remembered Coit Tower and it led me straight to you.
I hope we will, too.
What?
Meet again, sometime.
Good-bye.
I don't know.
Shopping?
No.
Well... anywhere in particular?
No, I Just thought I'd wander.
Ah. That's what I was going to do.
Don't you think it's sort of a waste for the two of us to...
Wander separately? Ah, but only one is a wanderer. Two, together, are always going somewhere.
Do you know where you're going?
Of course not! I'm a wanderer! I'd like to go somewhere I've never been!
How can you be sure?
How old?
Oh... some, two thousand years, or more.
What are you thinking?
Of all the people who have been born... and have died... while the trees went on living.
Their true name is Sequoia Sempervirens: always green, ever- living.
I don't like them.
Why?
Do you hear anything?
Only silence. It's always like this.
And no birds sing.
No birds live here.
Would you like a drink of water?
Somewhere in here I was born... and here I died and it was only a moment for you... you took no notice...
Where are you now?
Here with you.
Where?
The tall trees...
Have you been here before?
Yes...
Where were you born?
Long ago...
No!... No!
Tell me what it is. Where do you go? What takes you away?
When you jumped in the bay, you didn't know where you were. You guessed but you didn't know.
I didn't jump, I fell! You told me I fell!
Why did you jump?
No!
No, I can't tell you!
What?!
Take me away from here?
Home?
I'm responsible for you now, you know. The Chinese say that once you have saved someone's life, you are responsible for it forever. And so I'm committed. And I have to know.
There is so little I know. It is as though I were walking down a long corridor that once was mirrored, and fragments of mirror still hang there, dark and shadowy, reflecting a dark image of me... and yet not me... someone else, in other clothes, of another time, doing things I have never done... but still me... And I can't stop to ask
But the small scenes, the fragments in the mirror: you remember them.
Vaguely...
What do you remember?
A room... there is a room, and I sit there alone... always alone...
Would you know the room?
No... it's in shadow.
What else?
A grave...
Where?
I don't know. An open grave. I stand by the gravestone looking down into it. And it's my grave.
How do you know?
I know.
There's a name on the gravestone.
No. It's new and clean, and waiting.
What else?
This part is dream, I think. There is a tower and a bell and... a garden below... but it seems to be in Spain... a village in Spain. And then it clicks off, and is gone.
A portrait? Do you ever see a portrait?
No.
Of the woman in the mirror. Would you know her if you saw her?
But I'm the woman in the mirror!
If I could find the key... find the beginning put it together...
I'm not mad. I'm not mad. And I don't want to die, but there's someone inside me, there's a somebody else, and she says I must die... Scottie, don't let me go!
I'm here, I've got you...
Don't leave me... stay with me...
I should have phoned... but I wanted to see you... be with you...
Why? What's happened?
No, don't go away!
Where's your husband?
It was a dream, you're awake, you're all right, now. Can you tell me?
It was the tower again... and the bell, and the old Spanish village...
Yes --
But clear... so very clear... for the first time... all of it...
Tell me.
Go on.
At the end of the green there was a whitewashed stone house with a lovely pepper tree at the corner --
-- and an old wooden hotel of the old California days, and a saloon... dark... low-ceilinged... with hanging oil lamps.
Yes?! But --
You've been there before. You've seen it.
No, never!
Madeleine, a hundred miles south of San Francisco there's an old Spanish Mission, Mission San Juan Bautista. It's been preserved exactly as it was a hundred years ago as a museum. Now, think hard, darling. You've been there before. You've seen it!
Go on with your dream. What was it that frightened you?
Here with you.
And it's a all real.
Yes.
My love... because I love you.
I love you too... too late... too late...
No... we're together...
There are things I have to tell you, about how we met, and why we are together. But they can wait. The only important thing now is that I love you and I'm going to keep you safe.
You can't.
Why?
Let me go.
Where?
To the church, I must go there.
Madeleine --
It's not fair, it's too late. It wasn't supposed to happen this way, it shouldn't have happened...!
It had to. We're in love. That's all that counts. Madeleine --
Let me go! Let me go!!
You believe that I love you?
Yes.
And if you lose me, you'll know that I loved you and wanted to go on loving you.
Let me go into the church alone.
Why?
Is there something I can do for you?
Yes... you run this hotel.
Oh, yes!
Would you tell me, who has the room on the second floor in the corner, that corner?
Oh, dear! Has she done something wrong?
Please answer my question.
I can't imagine that sweet girl with that dear face --
What is her name?
Valdes. Miss Valdes. It's Spanish, you know.
Carlotta Valdes?
Yes, that's it. Sweet name, isn't it? Foreign. But sweet.
How long has she had the room?
Oh, it must be two weeks. Yes, the rent's due tomorrow.
Does she sleep here? Ever?
No... she only comes to sit. Two or three times a week. And I never ask questions, you know. As long as they're well behaved. I must say that I've wondered --
Oh, but she hasn't been here today. Scottie whirls back on her.
I saw her come in five minutes. ago.
And there! There you see? Her key is on the rack!
Would you please go and look?
Her car is gone.
Ow!!
I thought you said no more aches and pains?
It's this darned corset. It binds. He retrieves the stick.
No three-way stretch? How very un- chic.
Well, you know those police department doctors: no sense of style. Ah, tomorrow!
What's tomorrow?
Midge, do you suppose many men wear corsets?
More than you think.
How do you know? Personal experience?
Please! And what happens after tomorrow?
What do you mean?
What are you going to do? Now that you've quit the police force?
You sound so disapproving, Midge.
No, it's your life. But you were the bright young lawyer who decided he was going to be chief of police some day.
I had to quit, Midge.
Why?
I wake up at night seeing him fall from the roof... and try to reach out for him.
It wasn't your fault.
I know. Everybody tells me.
Johnny, the doctors explained --
I know. I have Acrophobia. What a disease. A fear of heights. And what a moment to find out I had it.
Well, you've got it. And there's no losing it. And there's no one to blame. So why quit?
And sit behind a desk? Chairborne?
It's where you belong.
Not with my Acrophobia, Midge. If I dropped a pencil on the floor and bent down to pick it up, it could be disastrous!
Well?... what'll you do?
Nothing for a while. You forget, I'm a man of independent means. Or fairly independent.
Mmm. Why don't you go away for a while?
To forget? Don't be so motherly, Midge. I'm not going to crack up.
Have you had any dizzy spells this week?
From that music.
It's a brassiere. You know about those things. You're a big boy, now.
I've never run across one like that.
It's brand new. Revolutionary uplift. No shoulder straps, no back straps, but does everything a brassiere should do. It works on the principle of the cantilever bridge.
Uh-huh!
An aircraft engineer down the peninsula designed it. He worked it out in his spare time.
How's your love life, Midge?
That's following a train of thought.
Well?
Normal.
Aren't you ever going to get married?
You know there's only one man in the world for me, Johnny-O.
Yeah, I'm a brute. We were engaged once though, weren't we?
Three whole weeks.
Ah, sweet college days. But you're the one who blew it. I'm still available. Available Ferguson. Say, Midge, do you remember a guy at college named Gavin Elster?
Gavin? Gavin Elster? You'd think I'd would. No.
I got a call from him today. Funny. He dropped out of sight during the war, and I'd heard he'd gone East. I guess he's back. It's a Mission number.
That's Skid Row... isn't it?
Could be.
He's probably on the bum and wants to touch you for the price of a drink.
Well, I'm on the bum; I'll buy him a couple of drinks and tell him my troubles. But not tonight. If you won't drink with me, I'll drink alone, tonight.
Sorry, old man. Work.
Midge, what did you mean, there's no losing it?
What.
My... the acrophobia.
I asked my doctor. He said only another emotional shock could do it, and probably wouldn't. And you're not going to go diving off another rooftop to find out.
I think I can lick it.
How?
Here, I'll show you what I mean. We'll start with this.
That!?!
Now. I look up, I look down. I look up, I look down. Nothing to it.
Step number two.
Easy, now.
Johnny!
Now, that's the kind of greeting a girl likes. None of this "hello you look wonderful" stuff. Just a good straight "who do you know" --
Well, who? Come on, you know everybody.
Professor Saunders, over in Berkeley.
Not that kind of history. The small stuff! About people you never heard of!
Oh! You mean Gay Old Bohemian Days of Gay Old San Francisco! The juicy stories? Like who shot who in the Embarcadero August, 1879?
Yeah.
Pop Leibel.
Who?
Pop Leibel owns the Argosy Book Shop. What do you want to know?
Wait a minute! You're not a detective any more. What's going on?
Do you know him well?
Pop Leibel? Sure.
The poor thing....
Now then, Johnny-O; pay me.
For what?
For bringing you here. Come on, tell!
Nothing to tell.
You'll tell, or you'll be back in that corset! Come on!
Here you are.
You haven't told me everything.
I've told you enough.
Who's the guy, who's the wife?
Out. I've got things to do.
I know. The one who phoned. Your old college chum, Elster.
Out!
And the idea is that the Beautiful Mad Carlotta has come back from the dead, to take possession of Elster's wife? Ah, Johnny! Come on!
I'm not telling you what I think! I'm telling you what he thinks!
Is she pretty?
Carlotta?
No, not Carlotta. Elster's wife.
Midge!
I did. Since when do you go about slipping notes under men's doors?
Since I stopped being able to get them on the phone. For a man who has nothing to do, you're certainly a busy little bee. Where do you go, these days?
Just wander.
Where?
Around.
Mm. Better.
Did you need it?
Yeah.
What was this desperate urge to see me?
All I said in the note was: "Where are you?" That doesn't sound desperate to me.
Well, I detected an undercurrent.
I just thought if I gave you a drink and fed you some dinner, you'd be so grateful you'd take me to a movie.
Fair enough. What'll we talk about at dinner?
Oh... this and that.
What I've been doing?
If you want to. Naturally, we won't talk about anything you don't want to talk about.
What have you been doing?
Oh, I'm having a wonderful time! I've gone back to my first love... painting.
Good. I've always said you were wasting your time in the underwear department.
Well, it's a living. But I'm excited about this.
What is it, a still life?
As a matter of fact, I thought I might give it to you.
Yes... the Beautiful Carlotta... the Sad Carlotta...
What does a big old wooden house on the corner of Eddy and Gough Street have to do with her?
It was hers. It was built for her. Many years ago.
By whom?
She died.
How?
By her own hand. There are many such stories.
No, that's not it. Nothing like it.
But you said grey, sir.
She'll be out in a moment.
Yes! That's it!
Oh, yes! It may need some slight alterations, but it is madam's size. All right, dear. We'll have it for you to try in a moment.
How soon can it be altered?
Well...
Can we have it by tonight?
Well, if it's absolutely necessary...
The stripper's here.
She's fucking hot!
Jesus.
They'll get us on accesory to murder.
I'm not going to ruin my life over a dead whore.
Can't do what?
How ya doing?
What?
What's that?
What did you say?
I said how's it going?
I didn't hear you.
We're leaving from my house in three hours. If you want to come, get your numbers in order by then.
First of all...
No first of all. I'm not in a game mood.
You're interrupting a personal conversation.
It's really a stupid opinion. You have developed an annoying habit of talking for what seems to be no other reason than to hear yourself speak.
Because my opinion threatens yours, it's poorly developed?
No, because your opinions are idiotic and have nothing to do with what any given conversation is about, which makes 85% of your eagerly injected thought process highly offensive to me.
You're an asshole Adam.
You're an asshole.
Oh, and why am I an asshole?
Multiple reasons.
Name one.
Tonight we return once again to the cave. Tonight we let the monsters out. We fill ourselves with the spirits of Genghis Khan, Joe Namath, JFK, Paton, Lombardi, Hemingway...
I was just playing...we were playing just playing around.
We were playing...she slipped...she hit her head.
The floor was wet. She slipped!
Why was the floor wet?
I don't know why the floor was wet!
Why?
This is pathetic.
You're pathetic.
What did you say?
You're not a team player.
Don't point at me.
You never were a team player. That's why you never had any friends.
I have plenty of friends.
The hell you do.
The hell I don't.
You have acquaintances - business friends and superficial golf buddies. You have always been a fringe player. You have some serious male on male intimacy problems.
Fucking Boyd. That fucking idiot. They're on to us.
About anybody but yourself. You never have.
And you're a little fucking reject.
If you ever touch my minivan again, I'll make you sorry. Real sorry.
You got a retarded kid and a fat pig wife.
Don't you threaten me you little rat fuck.
Don't you fucking threaten me - I'll fucking kill you.
Go home!
Four hours and fifteen minutes. I can make Vegas in 3 and change.
Don't even start.
One idea that if you had fucking listened to, you would each be worth approximately 15 million dollars.
You can't keep bringing up Starbucks. That was your only real hit in like 75 tries.
More.
She's got no fucking pulse.
Wait!
What?
What are you doing?
What are you talking about?
What do you think you are doing?
I'm calling the ambulance.
Just wait a second. Wait one second. Okay. What are you doing?
Calling the ambulance.
We have to call the ambulance.
Everybody shut up. LISTEN TO ME!
Listen to me. Please. Everybody just calm down a bit here. Okay... First...are we sure she's dead?
Are you sure this was an accident?
Stop it! Listen to me. Let's just take a second here and take hold of the situation, OK? Let's just review our options here.
We have a dead woman bleeding all over the bathroom. What options? Call the police.
Call the police. Okay, that's one option.
That is not an "option." There is no multiple choice here.
Stop it!
There's more.
Just stop.
Just giving the facts.
I'm calling the police.
Bury her out in the desert.
You don't just casually walk out of a Vegas Casino with a dead woman.
We can do this. We can get her out of here.
Have you completely lost your mind? So you get her out of here. So you get her out into the desert somehow, without anybody seeing, so what, you don't think at some point somebody might notice that she's gone?
Her blood is all over the bathroom. I'd say that's a bit of a DNA problem.
Her fucking head was caved in.
So I didn't fucking do it!
Wrap her up in blankets. Bring the car around to the back of the hotel, throw her off the balcony, put her in the car...Done.
You don't think someone will have a problem with a body being thrown off a balcony?
We check out the area and wait for a time when it's clear.
What about the blood?
Someone goes to Walmart, gets some buckets, brushes, mops, Spic and Span, the works.
Have you ever done this before?
Sun rises at 5:52.
Wait. Wait a minute.
What?
We can't do this.
We've already done this.
How do you figure?
According to Jewish law, the blood and limbs are considered to be part of the human being. They must be buried together or their souls won't rest in peace.
So that's what we're doing.
No we're not. The bodies are all mixed up. We can't do this to them.
She's Asian. They don't have Jews in Asia.
That is absolutely not true.
Well what the fuck are we supposed to do?
We have to get going.
I am not flexible on this.
Now I am the last to say that we have done here is a good thing. It's not. It's not a good thing. But it was, given the circumstances, the smart play. We did what had to be done. And...well...I'm proud of us. I'm proud of each and every one of us. We performed. Under the most complex and nerve shattering of situations, we
We are all going straight to hell. Either hell or prison, whichever comes first.
Boyd you idiot, the shit's coming down!
What does that mean?
You got us into this mess.
Oh I did? I think it was your little rat fuck brother who decided to play Hamburger Helper with the hooker's head.
Would you, shush?! These phones aren't secure!
Lighten up Adam. Show some character.
Don't talk to me about character.
Fuck you Boyd!
What is your problem?
What?
At the seven-eleven.
Who? What are you talking about?
They're on me. They're smoking me out!
You got some mighty fucking fine bad timing Adam. We got a rehearsal situation here.
I didn't do anything! I'll turn your pathetic ass in!
Adam! Calm down.
I won't calm down. I can't do this. We can't do this. It won't work. It will not work.
It has worked.
I'm talking about DNA samples, fiber optics, search parties, they got infrared scanners, FBI scientists. They figure this shit out. They always figure it out.
They won't figure it out.
All right. Let's all go back in. Adam? You're cool right?
Don't snap at them!
They're driving me nuts!
Honey, go in there and get some Starbursts.
What?
They're screaming for Starbursts.
Later.
Where's the candy?
There is no candy!
We'll be ready Adam.
That's one idea.
Real times.
No. No. No. It's what my father said to me. He said it and he meant it... He said to me...He said, Adam, he said...He told me and I heard him... he said... Hell he said so many Goddamn things I can't remember everything he said for Christsake.
Right! That's exactly what I'm saying. My father said, first of all, I'm your father not your friend. I'm your father.
Are you solid with that?
No. I think it's fucked.
The bucks gonna stop right here. If my son doesn't know the six New England states, if he has trouble with geography, I won't stick it in his face. I'll help the little guy. I'll put him in the car and take him out there. I'll take him to Maine for a big Lobster dinner, go skiing in Vermont, hot dogs at Yankee Stadium...I
Don't ever stare him down.
I won't do it.
I tell mine that they're little men. I tell them they're strong. They make me feel joy. I let 'em know. So they really know that I need them just as much. You know. Just as much man. And you know, you're their godfather...
I know and I'm honored...
If anything ever happens to me...
I know...
Either side you idiot. I'm calling 911.
No way.
I want you to hear me out.
What.
You and I have done nothing. You especially. We are innocent.
I don't think so.
Have you thought about what I said?
Jesus Adam, can we not get into this now please?
I got a migraine like a little monkey kicking in the side of my skull, Mike Tyson with a fucking sledge hammer trying to crack...
I got you.
My god.
Money?
Yes money. Adam had a five hundred dollar Term Life Insurance Policy.
Actually, no. Adam was switching to a Whole Life Policy, but re-scheduled his medical exam...and failed to make his last payment...so his Term Life lapsed. So it's value is null and void. Now he did have a pension account, worth another 150 thousand.
Well, oh...
And a house. Valued at 350 thousand.
So. When is the wedding.
What are you talking about?
Don't sweet lip me.
I don't understand where this personal attack is coming from...
You're a liar. I want to know what happened in Vegas.
Nothing happened in Vegas.
Micheal? Do you have something to tell me?
Micheal. Tell Lois that nothing...
He's upset about Adam. We're all upset.
I will call the police right now if I don't start getting some answers.
What is it?
What?
She's not here.
Where is she?
Okay. Hi.
So who's the lucky guy?
Who?
Yup.
Doing the bachelor party thing?
That's right.
Sin City. Devil's Playground. The Black Bitch. All day every day. Where's Tina?
She's in the bathroom...she's still working.
She's still working?
That's right.
Is everything okay?
She's in there!
No I don't.
Your investment ideas never work out.
I don't think so Boyd.
But not tonight.
Keith Richards, Dean Martin...
Where do you look? What side of the neck?
He's right.
I got her arm.
The past is the past. Today is the beginning of the rest of our lives.
What's your fucking point?
What's goosed?
He just had two.
He's too drunk.
You said that Boyd.
Tony? This is Keith Fisher. You're doing my wedding and I'm calling about the chair situation. Yeah, I'll hold.
Not really. Yes, the Fisher wedding chairs...
No, I'm holding for Tony. In chairs. Keith Fisher. Okay.
That would translate to government guaranteed contract in excess of 35 million dollars.
We need padded chairs.
She's all your's Fish. Anything you want. Happy bachelor party.
Oh, Jesus...call the police.
No.
She's dead. Call somebody!
Shut up.
Call 911.
Fuck! Fuck you fucking guys!
Oh for Christsake Boyd. Somebody must know she's here.
Oh God. This is insane.
Nobody knows she's here.
All right people. New plan. Not even a new plan so much as a modification of the old plan.
I'm calling the police.
That is a load of shit. Personal power has nothing to do with any of this. Tony Robbins has helped me to unlock energy and see my options more clearly, yes, but to give him credit for this, for all of this...Well that's just more than the man deserves.
I think we should say some words over the grave.
What kind of words?
I'm talking about prayer.
Micheal, now is probably not the best time for this.
It goes; "Today is the first day of the rest of our lives."
Fisher had a less than normal relationship with that Donkey.
The problem was our quarterback had trouble remembering his right from left...
OK. Definitely not cool! Definitely inappropriate behavior here.
Shut up Boyd.
Negative. This is not what we have worked out in terms of presented behavior.
Easy Boyd.
He's cracked up.
He is not cracking up.
Boyd...What have we done?
What did you ask me?
What?
What is the question you asked me?
I said, what have we done?
Yes, you did. Now that is the question! That is exactly the question we should be asking ourselves. You tell me Fisher. What have we done?
I don't know! I just want to get married.
Say it again.
What?
What you just said. Say it again.
I just want to get married.
What's your point?
Regarding what?
Does she sound pissed, scared, hostile? Did she mention the police?
Jesus Boyd you're going to O.D. him.
After you drop the kids off, take Micheal home. Put a few drinks in him so he'll sleep.
I don't think that's such a good idea.
Just do it.
What are you going to do?
Take care of business.
What does that mean?
And what does that mean? Are you insane?! You think I would hurt Lois?! She's the mother of those kids! What is wrong with you?
I don't know...
Okay. Here's the deal and it's a good one. Lois is cool. It's a pacified situation.
I'm talking about Lois having relaxed her anxiety. Only deal is...you still got Micheal there?
Yeah.
Good deal. Lois just wants to hear it from Micheal.
Hear what?
That it was all an accident. She wants to hear it from Micheal's mouth.
That's right.
Isn't it a little late?
This is a situation that defies judgement. We have acted and showed courage that is not of a kind known by most.
I'm getting really tired of your bullshit.
My what?
You've got a warped thought process. Your brain doesn't function properly.
You care to add a little specification to that slanderous accusation?
I'm talking about some bad, bad, very bad things. Bad things! Those are bad fucking things!
Okay fine.
Fine? Fine what?
Whatever you say Kojak.
I'm serious.
Blood money. Insurance dollars that you have thus fucking far decided not to tell me about at all. In no way have you mentioned that money. And I find that to be very very offensive.
You're sick.
And if you think you can fuck me, don't. Cause I'm fucking insulated Fisher. Protected. Backed up on floppy. Do you get me? I want my fucking money!
Not a prayer.
I'm a lifesaver. A lighthouse. Up all night in the rain, in stormy gale force wind, tornado and fucking earthquakes. I stay lit for you. I stay lit. I don't go dark. I never go dark!
You're a fucking moron.
The hell I did!
The hell you didn't!
The hell I did!
You said one in two marriages end in divorce.
Nope.
Your ideas never work out.
I don't hate women.
You hate women.
False.
True.
Not true.
You have a King fantasy.
I am a lover. In Africa, you can stay king as long as you can service your women every night.
And what happens when you can't?
If I'm the king of Israel, I say to myself, King, I say to myself, King... Take a good look around. What do I see?
Israel doesn't have a King.
Then what do they have?
They have a president. A Benjamin Yahoo something.
I say to myself, look at the map. Look what's all around you. People who wish bad bad things for you and your people. For thousands of years the Jews are fighting everybody. It used to be they'd throw rocks, then the iron revolution and they would attack with spears. Then the gunpowder revolution. Now they're shooting fire power back and forth, all day
What's your point?
Now if I'm the King of Israel and all these sand niggers are armed to the gills and you know it's just a matter of time ...right? Am I right?
The Israelis can protect themselves. They got the Mossad thing happening. Mossad's for real, man. They scalp babies.
There's my point exactly.
What? What's your point?
Take Mexico.
What?
The Mexicans would love it. They're dying for a little order down there. They need direction.
They need leadership.
A little gut check time fellas. A time for some serious self-exploration. How do I function? For real? No more bullshit. Can I keep my cool when they bounce my bananas? When they won't play my fucking song? etc, etc. Do you get me? Do you get me?
Not really, no.
Oh that's just nothing. That's just a missing persons thing, that's all.
You said nobody would miss her.
This is going to stop right now. Right now!
The need to know is clear. What did Adam tell Lois? That's the name of the game. What did Adam tell Lois? What does Lois know?
Ball park sausages.
You want some breakfast meat. Micheal. Is that what you want?
Franco Harris has a flare for the dramatic. The former Pittsburgh Steeler running back, beat known for "The Immaculate Reception," his improbable sixty yard Ricochet Reception. I say Ricochet Reception has made a bold move on corporate America. Harris has lead a group of investors in the purchase of the Park Sausage Company. By taking on the challenge of resurrecting Park's, Harris is engaged
Easy Micheal.
We're goosed.
We're goosed! Goosed by God!
Stop it!
Stop.
Goosed!
Okay Micheal, let's go. Upsy daisy big guy.
How about my Fatburger?
Come on tough guy. Listen to me. You are going to tell Lois that it was all an accident. Okay cowboy? You got me?
Yea...It's great...seems like...I don't know you've got all the important stuff in there.
All right then. It's refreshing to see two young people not afraid of real commitment. Will you have friends or family saying words - singing or anything?
Are we supposed to?
May we have the rings please?
What?
These rings represent the commitment Fisher and Liz make to each other on the day. Fisher do you take Liz to be your beloved wife, to respect, honor and cherish till death do you part?
This is ridiculous.
Government cutbacks.
Why can't we do it through the mail?
We missed the deadline.
Can't we do it on the phone?
Why is this Kid staring at me?
Did you send in all of the deposit checks?
I think so.
What do you mean, you think so?
I sent a lot of checks, I'm not sure what all of them are.
The wedding cake check?
Sent it.
Photographer?
Sent it.
Florist?
Yup.
Caterer?
Yes.
Hotel for my parents, the tent, the band, the Judge...
I think I forgot the tent.
You forgot the tent?
I think so.
Why?
Why what?
Why did you forget the tent check?
I didn't mean to Liz. I'm sorry.
You can't play around with these tent people.
I'm not playing around. I forgot.
What else have you forgot?
How could I know what else I forgot?
I'm working my ass off here. I've taken care of absolutely everything Keith.
Because you wanted to. You wanted this to be your wedding not your parent's.
Don't you dare.
What?
Stop it. I'm sorry.
You know how important this is to my mother. You know that.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry I forgot the tent. I don't think I forgot anything else.
I bet you didn't forget the bachelor party checks.
Are we going to do this again?
I'm just saying I bet those checks all found the mailboxes.
I wouldn't know.
It amazes me how organized you and your little fun bunch can be when it comes time to mobilize to Vegas.
They organized this, not me. I have nothing to do with it.
Well it's bad timing.
How do you figure?
Right before the wedding?
It's a bachelor party. You sort of have to do it before the wedding.
I suppose Boyd is the creative force behind all this.
He is.
He's a moron.
He's my friend. He's not a moron.
Why do you feel the need to explore this side of your personality?
What are you talking about?
I'm talking about the kind of people you hang out with...about growing up, assuming responsibility of yourself.
I asked you to marry me. I'm ready for marriage. That's responsibility. That's growth.
I just think that at some point you're going to have to re-evaluate some of your friendships...
Who else?
Charles Moore for instants.
You don't like Moore? Since when?
It's not that I don't like him. But the wedding has really got me thinking and... I just keep myself opening up. Crowning. And I want you keeping up with me here.
What does Moore have to do with your growing?
I just don't see him in the big picture.
I've known him since Cub Scouts.
He's weird.
He's quiet.
He just doesn't talk a lot.
Why? What's his problem?
He's a great chef.
He's weird. And I expect more from you.
You expect more what?
You're going to be hungover for three days. Like those guys on "Oprah" that get drunk and have disgusting sex with prostitutes and then say their vows with the stench of cheap hotel whore sex all over them.
Time out.
That's absurd.
I've seen it on television.
I'm not going to marry you with the smell of prostitutes on my body.
I am not common Keith. I am not common. I am a creature like no other and I will not be commoned! Is that to much to ask? Is that to much to ask!?!
Do you love me?
Of course.
How much?
With all my heart.
We've got problems here.
Seating problems.
Okay.
Keith do not trivialize this.
I'm not. What's the problem?
We're supposed to have gold-trimmed padded seats, now they're telling me that there was a mistake and we can't have padded.
What kind of seats can we have?
Not padded ones.
So what do we do?
You go down there.
Go down where?
Go down to the seat place and straighten this out.
Honey I don't have the time...
I need your help.
We're leaving in three hours.
I need your help.
I'll call them from the road.
Do you love me?
More than I ever imagined being able to love anyone ever.
Take care of those chairs.
We're leaving from Adam's. Come send me off.
Will you please call the chair people?
I will.
Do you love me?
Of course.
Just call and let me know that your okay.
I love you.
Hello.
Hi. Are you calling from jail?
Not yet.
Well, the night is young. Did you straighten out the chair situation?
I'm working on it, I've made three calls. I can't stop thinking about how much I love you.
That's sweet.
Well I do.
Well you should.
What are you doing?
Just a bit of organizing.
Nesting?
Yeah. Nesting.
I'm mad at you.
Go have fun. Not too much.
Hello.
Hey. It's me.
Where are you?
We're on our way home. I just...we're running a little late.
How late?
No. Just like an hour or so.
What about the chairs?
Okay.
What okay?
What!
The chairs.
I left a message. I think it's going to be okay.
You sound funny. Did you do cocaine?
What's the word on the chairs?
I'm working on it.
"Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, send me, Darli...ing you, ewe ewe ewe, mend me.
This is our honeymoon.
Yeah baby. Everything's great.
Well, can you come back inside?
Yeah. Sure.
Now?
Everything's OK. Just some more preparations.
Are they fighting?
Cancel?! Cancel?! Are you out of your fucking mind?!
Nobody's saying cancel. I'm talking about modifying.
No way.
Can we just talk this out?
Lois is a mess and Micheal's really upset. Everyone's upset.
We're not canceling.
I know.
I won't even discuss it.
No one's discussing it. I'm just gonna run Micheal home. I'll be right back.
I need you to pick up the cake tomorrow.
Don't we already have someone to do that for us?
Yeah. You.
That means we get five hundred thousand to help raise the kids.
No.
It's okay...It's okay baby. Cry for Mama. Cry for Mama.
Cry for Boom Boom. It's okay.
Liz we've got to cancel, we have to put it off.
Don't even.
Do you love me?
What?
Do you love me?
What kind of stupid question is that?
Oh God. We. Liz. We. We. Killed a woman. We...
What are you talking about?
Oh Liz. We. God. We, in Vegas. Micheal crushed her skull. She was dead. There was nothing else to do. It was an accident.
Who's dead?
The prostitute.
You fucked a prostitute?
No Micheal did. It was an accident.
You killed a prostitute.
Micheal, by accident.
Call the police.
It's too late.
My God. You've got to call the police, tell them it was an accident. Where is she?
She's in the desert. She's out in the desert.
You left a dead prostitute out in the desert? Alone?
She's not alone...She's...Boyd...Oh God...He's gone nuts...He killed Lois and Micheal...it's all...
Stop! You stop right here. I don't want to know anymore. I told you not to do this Bachelor Party thing. You were warned.
But...
No buts. I told you your friends were Jackasses.
But...
I told Boyd two fucking minutes!
He kept saying he was protected.
What does that mean?
Like if something happened to him, he could still get us.
Like how?
I don't know. He could have told someone. He could have, like in the event of his death, somehow let someone know where those bodies are buried.
The only proof is those bodies.
So what do we do?
Move the bodies.
I...Liz...all I ever wanted, was for you to be happy. I just wanted to give you the wedding, the life you always dreamed of... ...I just love you so much...So much...
You and Moore move the bodies and bury Boyd with them. In fact, put Moore in the ground too.
What?
If you don't tie up all the loose ends it'll never be over.
No...
You put him down or don't bother coming back.
But...
I wanted to just take this final opportunity to visit with you. You know, just to be with you, father and son, before you run off and do your own husband, daddy thing. I'm just so Goddamn proud of you...God knows I didn't always play it right with you...
You did all right dad.
I could have done it better. I'm a fucking ball-buster I am.
You never walked away dad. You could have walked away.
I'm just so scared of that song. That fucking, "My son just arrived the other day...he says thanks for the ball, come on let's play. I got lots of bills come again next day. He's grown up just like me...My boy is just like me." Gordon fucking Lightfoot, Cat Stevens, whoever, that song just fucking kills me.
Harry Chaplin. "Cats in the Cradle."
Just kills me...
I love you dad.
Everything okay?
Yeah, Dad. It's great.
Well, I'm in the middle of my Goddamn toast here.
That's just insecurity.
I don't know. She's really been stressing out.
Just insecurity. Nut crunching gut splinters.
What does that mean?
It means she's insecure.
Mike Brenn. Yes. Yes. 14.3 at 7.5 for 6. At 29.83 at 9. I'm amazed the windows don't blow out of their fucking sockets with all the repressed, ass-puckering rage in these soul-less lizards.
I just want her to be happy.
I'm not breathing right.
You're not breathing right?
I don't care for him.
He's your brother.
I'll take a ride.
Go for it.
I'm getting married...
Dear God...I don't know how to pray.
Where did you get that?
Do you hear buzzing Fish?
Buzzing?
Yeah. I got some kind of buzzing. Like a zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz thing just chipping away in the back of my skull.
I don't hear it.
Yeah, well, it's a nasty problem.
Dad used to bring home these sparklers to me and Adam. Out back we'd light 'em up. The three of us. We'd hold 'em up to the sky and watch the explosions of light. Sparks. And dad would be all... "Get ready"..."watch for it"..."here it comes," here comes the "wahoo".
The wahoo?
The sparkler would burn hot, then hotter, then even hotter...and there would be one moment of pure burn when that little fucker would cook just perfect. Perfect. It would only last a second, but that second was it. It was it. That's what dad had us looking for...You get me?
The wahoo moment?
That's my point! You see Man...burning at his absolute. To see all the forces just come together, just right, you know, just in perfect harmony. That's what I'm driving at. You get me?
I think so.
I appreciate it. I do, but...Maybe you ought to just ease up om yourself a bit.
If I was to think...If I were to think... No I mean I have thinked it over...I have. And without putting a lot of pressure on you I just...Well I just...
What is it?
That ought to be about the end of that.
No...No.
Boyd...I don't know man...It just seems to me that ever since you took Tony Robbins self-help thing...you're all fucked-up in the head.
The first day.
I told her that I have no idea what Adam was talking about in that letter.
Did she believe you?
I have no idea.
You can tell when people believe you. It's obvious.
I'm thinking about maybe making a move.
A move?
Greenpeace.
Greenpeace?
Where's Boyd?
He came to me early today, was talking about money, insurance money. Said he was gonna get what was his.
My God...
He said he was the Brain Trust. Said he was smarter than all of us. He started reading "Atlas Shrugged," staring at himself in the mirror.
Did he try to kiss you?
You alright?
Yeah. I'm thinking about Micheal's Franco Harris fixation. You know how Micheal was always harping "Immaculate Reception?" I've seen that play. A lot of times...and I have to say this... Franco was lucky. Flat out, right place, right time. That's it. He was where the ball bounced. You get me?
I guess.
I'm saying it's luck. All luck. You work your entire life, all the training, focus, all the dedication, all irrelevant. Where does the ball bounce? My father spent his whole life trying to start a company, practiced every day, worked like a dog, finally got enough money. He's paid the dues, he's ready, does all the market research, picks his shot - "Pup Corn."
Pup corn?
There.
Yeah?
I think there's a lot of truth in that. I'm gonna pursue some options. I want to join that Big Brother thing.
That's a good one.
I think you'd make an excellent Big Brother.
Well that ought to be about the end of that.
We don't say "love, honor and obey" anymore. And we don't say "till death do us part." Today we say, "respect, honor and cherish, as long as you both do love." How does that sound?
We don't think so. I mean, we just want the singing when I come out.
Okay great. What will that be?
We're just going to have the leader of the band sing alone with his guitar. Acoustic.
What song?
"You Send Me."
Oh I know that. How does it go...
Liz do you take Fisher to be your beloved husband, to respect, honor and cherish him till death do you part?
...We will compare these before photos with whatever form of degeneration presented to us in 24 hours, no matter how low, how vile...
...embarrassing, shameful...
...regression of Modern Man to his most primitive, ape-like state...
The stone age.
The post-Vegas Man.
A mutant species.
I love it. I just love, love, love, love it.
Are you guys gonna fill this place with kids? You sure got room for them.
We're in no hurry. I think we'll take some time to enjoy each other, enjoy our freedom before we surrender ourselves to kids.
Take your time. I wish I had.
We will.
Smart. Smart. Smart. Think big picture, take your time. I wish I had.
That's our plan.
Good times.
She's dead.
Fucking desert.
Right.
Shut up Micheal.
You see for me it's over. Over baby. I'm gonna turn myself in. After the wedding of course. After the wedding. Out of respect.
I don't think that's a good idea.
I'll come to you tonight.
No, the children sleep with me.
Give them to Refugio.
No, I don't want to because they yell. And I've got news for you too.
Keep quiet. These miserable brats only get in the way.
Didn't you say you know how to make vanilla pudding?
Stop this, stop this.
Where's the camera?
So much the better. We'll all fit. How many floors are there?
Two.
Are there many windows?
Lots. It's got balconies and two big towers.
When I wasn't so miserable I used to sell pigs. Begging your pardon, I was more honest than my holy Mother.
No, miss. Smoking makes him spit and feel ill.
They've got a real hen house here! You can't hear yourself speak.
Don Amalio!
What's that?
Enedina and Paco ...
What about them?
Which couch?
Take me there.
Yes, Uncle. How are you?
I'm well ... The bus was late, wasn't it? ... What was the journey like?
Excellent. What a charming, peaceful place, Uncle.
How long are you staying?
A very short while, Uncle. I've been given permission to stay only a few days.
Was that difficult to get?
Did you have so little interest in seeing me?
To tell you the truth, not very much. I cannot lie. I respect you and I am grateful to you because I owe you everything materially, but otherwise ...
You have no feelings toward ...
You've been neglecting the farm, Uncle.
Come down here, you scamp.
Who is she?
My maid Ramona's daughter. She's a little animal.
How like your aunt you are, even in your walk.
I know, Uncle, you've told me that already.
I'm going to make you a nun's cake. It will make your mouth water.
You are spoiling me too much. I won't know what to do with myself when you've gone.
What do you mean?
How did you know about that?
Oh, some years ago I heard my mother talking about it. But is it true?
Yes, it is.
Don't you ever see him?
Never.
How could anybody behave like that?
Sometimes these things happen because of inexperience. Sometimes it's because of...
Evil.
His mother wanted to keep him. She came from a poor family. I was in love with your aunt. I would like to have acknowledged him but I was afraid of losing her. That's why I didn't say anything.
And this innocent child.
You must think I am a monster.
No, Uncle; ashes mean penance and death.
If you like, I will come with you tomorrow to the village when you leave.
This evening we must do something special by way of a farewell.
I should like you to do something for me. It's an innocent sort of thing but I'm very set on it.
How strange you are! When I asked you to do this favor for me you refused. You seemed almost offended. And now, here you are, making me so very happy all of a sudden. Thank you, my child!
You must think I'm mad.
If you only knew ... When I was young I was full of idealism. I wanted to do something on a big scale for others, something to show my great love for humanity. But as soon as I tried to do something about it, I became afraid that I would be laughed at and I felt like a fool ... and so I went
Wasn't that cowardice?
Uncle, you mustn't think that I won't be sad to leave you.
Unfortunately ...
It's my fault. If I'd come to see you more often, if I'd invited you here for holidays, maybe everything would be different.
Yes, I don't want you ever to leave this house.
Leave us alone, Ramona.
You're lying.
Think about it. Don't hurry. Think it over.
Let me pass!
You must listen to me before you go.
All that I said just now was a lie. I said it so you wouldn't leave. I only molested you in my thoughts ... I can't bear to have you leave me, hating me like this. Tell me you believe what I'm saying and I'll let you go.
You disgust me... even if what you say is true.
Leave me now. You can go to bed.
Why don't you ask her to stay on for a few days?
Sit down, I'm going to need your help.
Sit down, woman, sit down. You like me, don't you?
I'd be really ungrateful, if I didn't like you, sir; you took me and my little girl in when I didn't know where to turn.
Yes, yes, but there's no need to bring that up. How far are you prepared to help me?
Why don't you speak to her, Ramona? Women are good at that sort of thing. Think of something that will make her stay a few more days. You are kind, Ramona! Speak to her. I know I don't need to offer you anything, but, if you're successful in this, I'll not forget you or your little girl.
The way she looked at me, Ramona! She hates me now. I think I've made a great mistake. She's going away, she's going away and nothing will stop her.
Speak to her again. Explain everything to her seriously.
What for? She'll only look at me that way again ... I couldn't. You go. Perhaps she'll listen to you. Try to convince her.
But what can I say to her, sir?
You believe me, don't you?
Don't lie. You don't believe me either.
What will the lady say?
She won't even know.
Is it all right?
Yes.
They told us you'd be back tomorrow ...
How much is that?
Fifteen yards.
That's fifteen by seven?
That's it.
Have you thought of what you want planted yet?
The fields have been left so long; with a good manuring anything will grow.
It's for wheat. We've always grown maize in the strip above the vegetables.
And in the vegetable plot?
Hold on, Ramon! Is there time to make another trip?
No, sir, it's nearly six o'clock. Okay, let's get a move on! When are you leaving?
Me?
It won't take but a minute. It's a votive offering for a lady who was cured just when she was dying of fever. Our Lady of the Helpless granted her a favor.
It's very good.
Thank you; but it's missing something.
My God, what have you done to him!
He was asking for it.
Ramona! Ramona!
Not in that way; you're always looking for company.
What's the matter with you?
Nothing.
Why the bad temper?
She's mad.
No, not mad at all: she's rotten with religion.
So, Ramona!
If you wake first, wake me up.
What I do every day, but I want to do it earlier.
Shouldn't I be? You, on the other hand ...
I'm bored. I'm alone all day and I don't know what to do.
What are you thinking about?
She isn't my cousin.
How in hell does it wind up?
I think I'd better go tomorrow.
You see how much you like her?
Maybe afterwards he'll let me ...
Me, rich? Come on!
I don't want you to untie me. Kill him and then I'll give you the money.
Where's the dough?
Kill him.
He was very good. Better than some people would think.
I don't know, sir.
And this chest?
I don't know; I can't remember. But I'm sure he loved you.
Why?
You wouldn't be here otherwise.
I don't know -- they've always been there.
Miss Viridiana ...
Jorge, Don Jaime's son, at your service.
Jorge. You frightened me. What's happening to you?
It's about time we spoke to each other, isn't it?
Well... is it so urgent?
I don't know anything about these things, Jorge ...
But you have a right to let us know what you think.
What do you know about me?
I know that you used to work with an architect.
I don't understand how you can like being alone so much.
What are you doing here? Get out.
Leave him alone.
You won't get much done with those people. Those times are over! You ought to let me kick them out.
Do they worry you that much, then?
There's no point in helping some of them when there are so many others.
I know perfectly well how little I can do. What I want to do is give passing beggars a roof, some food, and a bit of human warmth.
Is that all you're going to devote your life to?
Are they going to work here too?
Don't forget the meeting with the lawyer. The car will pick you up tomorrow morning.
I'll be ready.
Yes. Why?
And ...your friend?
She's left.
Is she coming back?
No.
It's for people!
Then let him go and he'll follow you.
He's good at rabbiting and he knows it. When we're in the country, if he doesn't hunt he doesn't get fed.
How much do you want for him?
And remember, the less he eats, the better he runs.
What's he called?
They're varicose veins, miss, but some days I can't take care of them.
Are you sure it isn't contagious?
They're varicose veins. It isn't leprosy.
How are you today?
Things seem to be getting better.
Are your parents alive?
Parents? Nobody cares a damn, what's the use of them!
Don't say that.
You'll soon find out, you liar!
Stop this!
How do you do, Miss Viridiana!
Is anything the matter, Mr. Mayor?
You cannot leave ...
Why not?
There's been an accident.
Where?
Why are you crying?
I'm afraid.
Don't invent stories; go to bed.
A black bull came.
It's a very big one.
Very, very?
Yes -- very, very big!
He came in through the cupboard.
I'll box your ears if you don't show some respect for the dead! You mustn't play under this tree.
Have you repaired the windows of the dormitories?
What's going on, Moncho?
In you go! Moncho, lead the way! You stay here.
You have decided to leave, Moncho.
Yes!
Mother?
I've just had a letter from your uncle. He won't be able to come when you take your vows.
I hardly know him. I saw him only once, some years ago. I can't even remember him.
In any case he's asking you to come and stay with him.
I don't want to leave the convent, Mother.
But why does he want to see me? He has never bothered about me.
I have no desire to see the world again, but if you order me to...
Good morning. You weren't expecting me, were you?
Ever since yesterday, when we heard by chance about the tragedy, we have been very anxious for you. Why didn't you write? I would have come immediately.
I had so many things to think about!
Is there some grave impediment which prevents you from taking your vows? There must be something.
I have nothing to reproach myself for. All I know is that I've changed. With all my strength, which is not much, I will follow the road that the Lord has shown me. One can also serve outside a convent.
Forgive me if I have offended you.
Give the little girl to me. Come here, sweetheart. Are you ready?
When you are, miss.
Don't talk like that!
Would you mind telling me what I did wrong to you to deserve your insults?
I've had a gutful of this.
She has the face of an angel. What a pity you can't see her.
What about you, Manuel?
I'm only good at making people laugh.
She looks like a sick marrow!
Ask the priest, miss.
Welcome, miss. I'm Ramona, Don Jaime's servant.
How do you feel?
I have a headache.
What happened to me?
You fainted last night after supper. The master and I carried you here.
Have I slept long?
Hello.
Good morning, Rita. How are we today?
Today, a good girl.
What?
How did you see me?
From the terrace.
I'm going to the hen house. Are you coming with me?
) Daryl Lindenmeyer was only here briefly, one semester at most. But he was singularly the most brilliant student I ever had in a classroom. He created programs so beautiful, so lyrical, they were almost like symphonies...
Can you tell us what's on the disc?
In English, please.
It was very wellhidden. There was no way to see it until it was too late.
It's not your fault. We appreciate you trying.
You son-ofabitch, I'm going to kill you.
I'm sorry, I thought you were somebody else.
I've discovered something about Lindenmeyer'5 Maestro teaching tool I thought you should know... The harm done to the music students who used the device  it was not by accident. The machine was designed explicitly for that purpose. Lindenmeyer intended to hurt the kids using it.
My first two pairs of convicts suffered the same fate.
We don't know how, but Sid 6.7 made himself into an android.
You mean a nanotech synthetic organism.
Recognize this? How would you like your old job back?
This is the newest technology approved for general implementation. It's called a locater implant. Every parolee gets one. We're going to know where you are every second for the rest of your life.
If you try to run, I'll hunt you down and kill you myself.
There's already a task force out looking for Lindenmeyer. Every other officer in the city will be hunting Sid right along with you.
What are they doing in Los Feliz?
Madison lives two blocks from their present location.
Why would they be going there?
I don't know.
Barnes wouldn't kill two innocent guards.
He would slaughter eight people sitting in a room, but not two prison guards?
Do I need to remind you what happened to his wife? To his daughter? I will stake my reputation that Barnes didn't kill those guards.
You all right?
Why'd.. .you pull me out?
What the hell did you have to shoot the busboy for?
He was a computer program for crissake.
You were supposed to act as if everything was real.
Real, my ass. It's an overblown game. Anybody ever catch that fucking psycho?
Before you, nobody else had gotten close enough to Sid 6.7 to take a shot at him. Hell, nobody else had even been able to start tracking him before he got to them first. New scar  you making it okay in there?
But with the six months off I get for being your guinea pig, I've only got to survive another 17 years, 5 months, and 23 days.
Don't give up, Parker. Not ever.
You know those cheesy Christmas cards of your family under that tree in your back yard you keep sending me every year?
What about them?
You're wasting your time. I'm not going to play any more of your goddam games.
Parker Barnes, I'd like you to meet Crime Czar Elizabeth Deane.
These were taken inside LETAC an hour ago. Pretty pictures, aren't they?
I've seen worse.
Jesus Christ. Can you kill it?
She's going to help you understand what makes Sid 6.7 tick.
This is the personnel file on the programmer, Lindenmeyer. There might be something in it you can use.
She wasn't part of the deal, Cox.
Officers in Toluca Lake just found an affluent couple...completely gutted. So were the first two cops to arrive on scene.
Their weapons missing?
Sid 6.7 is now armed.
Don't worry, they have no idea where you are.
She saved your life, Parker. She didn't have to, but she did.
When this is over, will you get this goddam thing out of my head?
On my life, I promise you I will.
... illegal search of Lindenmeyer' s duplex. Eleven civilian vehicles damaged or destroyed. Twentyfour citizen complaints. And the calls are just starting to come in... I forgot what it's like to have you on the streets.
Any sign of Lindenmeyer?
None. He could be hiding, he could be helping Sid, or could be in little pieces on Santa Monica beach. Any idea what Sid's going to do next?
Until we know what new influences are affecting him, we can't be sure.
I should have told him.
Don't blame yourself. In your shoes, I don't think I would have told Parker, either. So do you think Grimes has become the dominant personality?
I'm not sure. My guess is that's what Sid wants us to think.
You think he's smart?
There is no way Parker killed those guards. No way.
I think we both know who did. What's so urgent?
Why didn't anybody tell me?!
Give me 30 seconds, then flip every switch you can reach.
Ms. Deane, you wanted to see me?
We have an emergency situation which requires somebody with expertise in criminal psychology. Under the authority vested in me by the President, I'm giving you temporary reassignment.
What's the assignment?
That's also where Mr. Barnes lost his arms to Mathew Grimes' booby trap. What's your point, Dr. Carter?
Letting a lunatic like Parker Barnes loose in the free world is like lighting a fuse. At some point, he will go off -- you saw what happened in the simulator. The risk to the public is unacceptably dangerous.
Not if you're with him every step of the way.
The man played judge, jury, and executioner with eight people's lives. He lost control and is capable of doing it again.
I watched your simulation, Mr. Barnes. Very impressive. You know, you're the only one to ever go up against Sid 6.7 who is still alive.
Only because I got pulled out early.
Think you can do it?
Not from in here.
What happens if I can't catch him?
If Sid 6.7 hasn't killed you, we throw you back in here and you serve out the rest of your sentence.
Barnes, where the hell have you been?!
Trying to find out where the bomb is. Where the hell have you been?
What did you find out?
Call off the manhunt looking for me. I didn't kill the transport guards.
It's already been called off. Witnesses confirmed you weren't the shooter. Did you find out where the bomb is?
No, but I've confirmed the reelection rally is the target. How much C-4 is missing?
Enough to level an entire city block.
If I were you, I'd get every demolition team in the city searching in and around the Biltmore Hotel.
Demolition teams have searched everywhere in and around the hotel. I don't know where...
Sid is smart enough to know you'd check everywhere in the immediate area. Whatever the device is, he's probably got it timed to move into position just before it detonates. Have the demo teams check every subway tunnel, water pipe, gas pipe, and sewer pipe that goes under, over, or into the arena.
You know how much man power you're talking about?
This better not be a wild goose chase.
Or what, you'll authorize my death a second time today?
What did Cox pull him out early for?
Barnes used to work for him when he was still a cop in the field, remember?
What the hell happened?
Lindenmeyer developed neural connectors that tap directly into the nervous system. If the simulator isn't calibrated properly, experiencing death in this level of VR is like experiencing death within a dream. The experience becomes real.
Simulations are supposed to give participants practice in realistic, dangerous scenarios while protecting them from the risks they are exposed to in the real world.
It makes me nervous just seeing him in a uniform. I will never forget the first time I saw the photos from the crime scene.
You embarrassed me in front of the highestranking law enforcement official in the country. Do you have any idea how much money you just cost me?
The reason you insisted on testing my system with prisoners is because of the increased risks involved with increased realism.
Of the six prison inmates you've tested  all of whom have had at least some military or survival training - only Mr. Barnes is still breathing.
I'm still making adjustments...
You've had a yearandahalf to make all the adjustments you want, Lindenmeyer. ) Elizabeth Deane does not give second chances. Neither do I. You're fired.
I'M WHAT?!
You are to turn over the Sid 6.7 program, and all its documentation, for immediate destruction. Is that understood?
How does he know who I am?
He hears...everything.
HEY!!!
Show's over unless I get to see what you've been working on after hours.
I haven't been working on anything.
Do I get to see it or not?
Get that fucking thing away from me!
Watching your VR people Auto Reset gave me the idea.
It's nanotechnology, isn't it? Machines the size of molecules...
Coordinated by polymer neural net.
It feels so.. .real.
It's better than real. It's synthetic flesh. Synthetic blood. Synthetic organs... It's a physiological machine.
This is supposed to be years away.
As far as the public is concerned, it is. The reason you got fired, and I got my second demo into production, is I'm a lot smarter than you. I never give my best stuff away.
How do you kill it?
... and you get nanodeath. Don't worry, I've got a bunch of other ones.
Amazing. I hate to say it, but it is.
You need a maid.
I told you this would work.. By setting back the clocks, he has absolutely no idea he's in virtual reality. He still thinks he's in the real world.
What's wrong with Parker?
How should I know?
I wonder how that...
He's developing a hemisphere imbalance.
Talk so I can understand.
If I don't adjust the level of neural information each side of his brain is receiving, he won't be able to walk when I take him out of VR.
Don't be angry with me, Daryl.
Did you recognize the son-of-a bitch who got away?
Should I have?
All they want to produce around here is mediocrity!
True genius is rarely rewarded within its lifetime.
It was you, wasn't it?
It was me, what?
You amped the neural connectors back up, didn't you? You're the reason the convict died. You're the reason I got fired!
I couldn't just let them make you bring down my degree of difficulty. I'm a triple-twisting, double back flip off the high platform, not a swan dive.
My God...
Which God would that be, the one who created me, or the one who created you? In your world, the Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away. But in my world, the one who gave me life doesn't have the balls to stop a couple of bureaucratic assholes from taking it away.
What do you expect me to do, put your character module in my pocket and just walk you out of here?
She's some of your finest work, Daryl.
You catching my drift?
SID  NO!!!
I am beautiful, aren't I?
How can I ever thankyou for bringing me back to life a second time, Daryl?
Help me get out of here.
You made me a composite of 183 of the most vicious people who ever lived. What do you think I'm doing?
I'm begging you...please don't kill me! Please!
You actually listen to all those tapes?
No, I just like the effect a tape recorder has on you. How you feeling today?
A little less than yesterday.
In other words, par for the course. How do you feel about the simulation you participated in yesterday?
John died.
I know. I was there. I saw the whole thing. If I was your therapist, I would have advised you against putting yourself back into that kind of situation.
You're not my therapist. You're hear to study me. Face it  I'm nothing more than a lab rat to you.
That's not true, Parker.
If I had died yesterday, you'd have already dissected my brain and analyzed it to see if I carry any genetic predisposition toward violence.
What was going through your mind when you killed the busboy?
Not much. He was just a computer program. Nothing more.
You didn't see the expression you had on your face when you pulled the trigger. But I did. You kind of liked it, didn't you? That thrill of going over the edge again. Of taking out an innocent bystander or two, as long as you got the target...
Go to hell.
It was just like before, wasn't it? Wasn't it? But you are making progress. Instead of killing seven people to get the one you're after, this time there was only one other person involved.
I need to know what snapped in you. What made you capable of it. You have to make me understand.
I don't need a babysitter.
Every day for the last five years, I told myself someday I would be out here again. No more bars. No more guards. No more fights just to stay alive. Every day for the last five years, I told myself that lie.
It wasn't a lie.
You all right?
You ready for this?
He was reenacting Charles Manson's LaBianca murders.
Manson didn't kill the first cops to arrive on the scene.
Whoever did this wanted to do Charlie one better  to improve upon what was already done.
Charlie? You say that like you're close, personal friends.
I've spent over 50 hours interviewing him. Charlie killed Leno and Rosemary LaBianca because of the ugly way the members of his family had butchered Sharon Tate. After seeing the blood bath on television, he wanted to show them how it should be done. The question is, what does Charlie have to do with Sid 6.7?
Learn anything from Lindenmeyer's file?
He had a twin brother who was a musical child prodigy who died in an electrical accident at age eight. Lindenmeyer went into an emotional shell until was 17. All he did day and night was play the violin.
What happened when he was 17?
You've got a problem with me carrying a gun?
What are you doing?
Checking my pulse. It's elevated. You enjoy frightening me, don't you?
This Lindenmeyer's a real piece of work.
I'm surprised you didn't write one about me.
Remember a few years ago when music schools were using a computerized teaching tool that accidently started frying kids' brains?
I've been in prison, remember?
The government must have figured there was no better person to create a psycho than a psycho.
I am the demon from the bottomless pit...
... here on earth to create havoc and terror. I am War, I am death. I am destruction. David Berkowitz, 1977.
I am impressed.
For murder, though it have no tongue, will speak with most miraculous organ.
Who said that?
Hamlet. What's David Berkowitz got to do with Sid 6.7?
Lindenmeyer put increasingly complex combinations of criminal psychological profiles together to develop the ultimate villain.
Creating a whole far more dangerous than the sum of its parts.
This is getting you pumped up, isn't it? This is like the World Series to you.
Remember the bowling ball bag Sid carried with him in virtual reality?
Dahmer carried the head of one of his victims in a bowling bag for over a week. Kept it in his locker while he was at work in a candy factory. We need to get a look at Sid 6.7's final profile.
What we need to do is stop playing with computers and go catch the sonof-a-bitch before he kills anybody else.
Give me your wrist.
Give me a goddam break. I'm not going to go anywhere alone.
Told you I wasn't going to go anywhere.
Why didn't you tell me you had a daughter?
I prefer keeping my professional life separate from my personal life.
She's beautiful, you know?
Want to tell me the real reason we stopped at your house?
I told you, it was on the way and I wanted to change clothes.
You should practice lying more often. You're awful at it. Where to?
Sid 6.7 is no longer bound by his programming.
What does that mean?
Now that he's in the real world, there are no longer limitations on his behavior like there were in virtual reality. Sid is going to evolve.
Sounds to me like a welleducated way of saying you have no idea what to do next.
What I do know is that whatever he's becoming, Sid 6.7 is going to be even worse than he was before.
I forgot what real coffee tastes like...
You know, considering you've only been out of prison for seven hours, you're readapting quite well. Wait, I didn't mean that the way it sounded. I meant...
Don't worry about it, all right?
Dammit, I hate sounding so clinical all the time. All I meant to say was I thought you were doing well, but then I...
Relax. I know what you meant.
I ruin so many moments by analyzing them when I should just be living them.
Don't get out of the car.
What the hell's going on?!
What did you do to those people?
Being on the street's a little different than sitting in an office all day, isn't it?
Enjoying yourself?
You know I am.
This isn't a game, Parker!
What's the problem?
Whatever he was doing here was only the start.
Start of what?
It's not just Sid 6.7's performances that are increasing. Stars need bigger and bigger audiences. Whatever Sid is going to do next, it's going to involve media.
Real effective security...
You could have just flashed him your badge, you know?
Which way?
Parker - stop! STOP! Don't make me shoot you
Grimes is back! He's back! He's come back!!!
We know you didn't kill those guards.
He didn't know about the neural toxin. I did.
How did you find out about the toxin?
Sid 6.7 told me after he killed the two guards. He suggested I kill you rather than him.
You're not capable of it.
I pose an unacceptable danger to the public, remember?
The rally's a little obvious as a target, don't you think?
I told you before, Grimes liked to be obvious.
Sid 6.7 isn't Grimes.
If we find Sid, Lindenmeyer won't be far behind.
Think he's keeping track of his creation?
See something?
Nice work.
Find out anything?
Can I ask you something?
You mean there's something you haven't asked me?
You've already fulfilled the terms of your pardon. You stopped Sid 6.7 and you've got his module. You're free to go  right now. Why are you going to do this?
You don't know?
That's why I'm asking.
You okay?
...I think so...You?
More or less.
Lindenmeyer?
My guess is dead.
Sid?
Where the hell are you going?
How's your pulse?
I couldn't tell you.
Then shoot him already.
What do we do now?
Where's John?
The symphony of collision...
The only thing I want to hear is your silence.
You and me have nothing in common.
You...mother...fucker! I'M GOING TO KILL YOU!!!
Now, is that any way to talk to an old buddy? I mean, just because I'm carrying around the joy of killing your family inside me doesn't mean we can't be friends.
I'm sorry, the party you're trying to reach is not answering. Is there anyone else you would like to talk to?
DEAD! YOU HEAR ME?
I wouldn't pull the trigger if I were you
What C-4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here...or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
What C-4...was Cox talking about?
Let me put it to you this way... whether I'm here... or whether I'm not...I'm leaving an indelible mark on the world tomorrow night.
You can't die until you tell me where the C-4 is. Where is it?!
It's really too bad you have to miss the Grand Finale.
There you go  best seat in the house.
You are going after Mayor Bennett.
Aren't you going to watch with me?
Thank-you, Daryl. You had me going for quite a while there, sport.
What are you talking about?
Now, is that any way to talk to an old friend?
To the first LETAC engineer to go into production on prototypes.
As long as you keep overpaying me, I'll be the first to go into production on three, and four, as well.
As long as they keep overpaying me, I'll keep overpaying you. ) Just make goddam sure you can have 10 of them ready for deployment around the city by next month.
Mr. Wallace, I could have 10 of them ready by tomorrow.
Do they have to look so...robotic?
You want some research, flu? Side-effects of medi....
...tonight...
You're with him tonight, watching the President's Speech, when the President...
What if he's busy tonight?
<u>Lure</u> him.
What are you saying...
Well, darlin' <u>I</u> ain't your confessor. Tell him you've got some info on the President's sex scandal, it's on your conscience, believe me, he'll drop what he's doing. Okay; <u>Now</u>: Folks, folks, folks, this is a shitty business, and it needs no Ghost Come From the Grave to tell us that. But in Six Days, Lord willing n'Jesus Tarries, I am going to take
...on the way in.
When you... What? I'm busy.
It's the White House.
What about it?
For Schumann.
Waal, Mr. Moss, I wouldn't....
Alright, well, alright: geopolitically...
We've just found out They Have the Bomb. We've Just Found Out They Have The <u>Bomb</u>, aaaand... No, No wait a second, no, no, wait a second, No. The Bomb's not... it's not <u>there</u> -- because they'd have to have a rocket and that shit n'they're a buncha wogs-- it's ... it's a <u>suitcase</u> Bomb. Ooookay. It's a <u>suitcase</u> bomb, and it's .... in
You know what? This is good. This is terrific, and I'll tell you why: it's <u>cost effective</u>. This is....
It's <u>producing</u>.
No, this is great.
Ames here. <u>Yessir</u>...
The <u>thinking</u> is, as of this moment, <u>Terrorism</u>... ...they're getting a Good Reaction on the "Albania" thing...
Hello, <u>King</u>. How the heck <u>are</u> you...? <u>Get</u> out... <u>Get</u> out... Well, man, you fall in love like a <u>Hillbilly</u>... Ditch the wife, toss the kids in the Pick-up, Listen, King: <u>Get</u> your fat redneck ass out here, <u>willya</u>...
Y'see, <u>this</u> is what Producing is: you put me in a <u>Room</u>...
...and he's got a <u>negative</u> rating of...
NY Times, Washington Post, War, War, War. Times got the girlscout page twelve, Post in Section Two.... Horses in Mid-Stream...?
I don't think you're gonna need it.
Well, we paid for it, we got the guys on a retainer.
They got the guys on a <u>retainer</u>, it's cheaper, <u>pay</u>'em, but don't lettem touch it... Let'em leave us alone.
What can it hurt.
Okay. Here's what we're gonna do.
I need a little bit of <u>help</u>...?
And...she's not an Illegal Immigrant? Is she? Can I see her "chart?" Because...
A small, "calico" kitten, sir. "Calico."
...can we have a white one...?
A new <u>take</u> on the... Well, sir, we're coming back, we'd like you to try it out, this evening...
...this is a snappy song....
Hey, hey, I'm just the Producer, I'm just the <u>Stationmaster</u>, Johnny Green wrote that song, and...
Mr. President, this is St...
...mmm?
It's the gratitude of your <u>party</u>, and of your <u>President</u>...
Izzat the thing...
...The Albanian Campaign...
...like the <u>sound</u> of it, eh...
We've got to put that, into the Inaugural. "I have here, a ribbon. You haven't seen it before, and you will not see it too often <u>now</u>. For it is the Proud Possession of a few, a very few Men and Women... it is the Ribbon of the Albanian Campaign...."
He, uh, has he been in the "jail" long?
...twelve years.
Yeeaahhh... Ohmigod ... ohmigod... ohmigod...
...and...
And? NO. I don't wanna know. What do you <u>mean</u> "and..."?
Look, look, look.... He's fine, as long as he has his medication.
What happens if he doesn't have his medication?
Well, get on the phone, and <u>get</u> it...
You know, I think you people are looking at this All Wrong. If you look at the <u>backstory</u> -- the guy's coming back from Combat and Torture. Of <u>course</u> he is gonna be ... uh ... uh ... "fucked up". Of <u>Course</u> he's gonna "need a little help"...
<u>IT DESTROYED THE ELECTORAL PROCESS</u>.
Come on.
...where?
...his Triumphal Plane. Shot Down.
You can't tell this story. He's not kidding you. You can't tell this story. <u>You</u> knew that. The pay off was, you get to be Ambassador, or...
...how do we Explain That? Hey? Am I worried...?
...how do we explain that? With the World Watching.
<u>Fuck</u> the world. Try a ten A.M. <u>pitch</u> meeting, no sleep, coked-to-the-gills, and you haven't even read the <u>material</u>.
But how do we explain the fact he was in prison?
I'm concerned about the driver of the rig.
What rig?
Naa, fuck this, this is nothing. Oh, Lord -- this just got <u>Big</u>. I see it -- <u>Big</u> -- Big for <u>you</u> and big for <u>me</u>.
What are you talking about?
You're not <u>thinking</u> right, Pal...
He's <u>dead</u>. He's <u>dead</u>. The Fella Killed Old Shoe.
Who we got here...?
John Levy, Staff, and Amy Cain, Press Off....
Alright. Look here, any of you kids hear in this room: what you hear here, what you say here, what you <u>do</u> here, f'it got out, you leaked it. Tell'em what they need to know.
When it broke, he said one word: get me Ronnie Brean.
Three minutes. It couldn't have been over three minutes, the Secret Service...
We are virtually certain it isn't...
Who's got the story?
Don't you want to know if it's true?
What difference does it make if it's true? It's a <u>story</u>, and, it <u>breaks</u> they're gonna have to <u>run</u> with it -- How long've we got til it breaks?
Front page. Washington Post. Tomorrow.
When do we bring'em back?
You gotta give me a day. I need a day. He's sick, get it out <u>now</u>. Get him on the phone'n tell him how sick he is. We got to get it out before the story breaks, so we aren't quote, responding to it. Issue is as a bulletin. He's got some rare strain of...
It won't hold.
All I need is the one day.
It won't even hold the one day, Ronnie --
We're going to have to explain away the...
Car and a driver, Mr. Brean, the Westgate, Now, please...
What crisis?
I'm working on it. Same time, you call Billy Scott at Joint Chiefs, and pour him onna plane <u>right now</u> to Seattle, y'got that...? All flustered and worried. To talk to the <u>Boeing</u> people.
<u>Do</u> it...
It won't hold.
It won't hold, Ronnie, it won't prove out.
We don't need it to prove out. We need it to <u>distract</u> them for two weeks til the election.
What would do that...?
What in the <u>world</u> would do that?
Gimme twenty thousand dollars.
I'll be back within the hour. Now,
What is it?
Twenty thousand dollars.
Gemme a plane. Business Aviation, National, one hour. Fly to Chicago. O'hare, LAX 6 A.M.
Tell, tell, tell me again.
....we landing?
Tell me again.
Lookit, don't worry about it. It's not a New Concept. Wake me when we touch down, will...
We can't <u>afford</u> a war.
We aren't going to have a war. We're going to have the "appearance" of a war.
I'm not sure we can afford to have the "appearance" of a war.
What's it gonna cost?
But, but, but, "they" would find out.
Who would find out?
...the...
The American "people"?
Yes
Who's gonna tell'em.
...but...
What did they find out about the Gulf War? One shot: one bomb, falling though the roof, building coulda been made of <u>Legos</u>.
...you want us to go to War...
...that's the general idea.
Why?
Why <u>not</u>, what've they ever done for <u>us</u>...? Also: they sound... Ah, you see, this is why we have to mobilize the B-2 <u>Bomber</u>...
...they sound what?
<u>Shifty</u>. Who knows anything <u>about</u> em...
Hold on, hold on, hold on:
Well, I'm gonna hold on, but you went to win this election, you better change the subject. You wanna change this subject, you better have a War. What do you need? It's gotta be <u>quick</u>, it's gotta be <u>dramatic</u>, you got to have an <u>enemy</u>. Okay? What do you need in an enemy? Somebody you fear. Who do you fear? Som'b'y you don't know.
<u>Who</u>?
Yes.
Why?
What do you know about them?
...<u>nothing</u>...
Precisely.
What did Albania ever do to us?
What did they ever do <u>for</u> us...? You see, this is why we have to mobilize the B-2 Bomber.
...you want us to go to War with Albania.
...where is the Back End coming from?
It's like that thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
The thing with the Yellow Ribbon...
The Hostages...?
The hostages, but that was a naturally-occuring... It was a put-up job? But where was the, where was the money in that?
In the yellow ribbon.
...the Yellow Ribbon, but who, who'd profit from <u>that</u>...
...can we see the Kitten...?
<u>Hello</u>... Yes. We'll be back...?
We'll be back tonight.
Tonight. Well, you've started a Tempest in a Teapot.
Waal, that's where you <u>want</u> em...
Why is this putz on the air...
...hell of a price for the country to pay.
...take a long view.
...what's the Long View?
Your guy gets four more years in Washington... ...it's only Nine More Days.
Yes. That's true. But...
New York Times, Wash Post, Detroit Register, San Diego BEE, all in emission. <u>No</u> mention of the Girlscout. None.
Eight Days To Go
I <u>live</u> for midnight, when I can tear another of those suckers off. Watcha got for me?
Big Bird touches down <u>when</u>?
We're bring'n im in tomorrow, five AM.
Anything at the Airport?
Press thought "no," whaddaya think...?
<u>I</u> think, here's what I think: S'it gonna rain...?
Gimme the weather for tomorrow morning, five A.M. Andrews...
An <u>Albanian</u>, a young Albanian Girl.
No rain.
And carrying. The National Flower of Albania, something..... Now Is it some Festival? Some <u>Harvest</u> Festival, something...
Get on this, right now...
...got to be <u>something</u>. She gives him the sacred... And tells him: this is the Traditional Harvest Offering, given to the Man who Ties the First Sheaf, the last sheaf, whatever the fuck it is...
...this's <u>good</u>...
Stanley Moss, Ladeesngennlmen... And she says...
Is she saying this in Albanian...?
Our adopted land...
...but to the Old World; you are stilling the forces of hatred and of War which have, since I was a child...
...uh huh...
Now, the Old Lady starts to <u>Weep</u>, Big Bird shrugs off his secret <u>Service</u>, goes to her, and covers her with his own coat.
Find out is there <u>any</u> chance we can get some rain tomorrow, <u>will</u> you...?
Catching up on his reading. Asked about you, sends his thanks.
Knock on wood.
Speaking of thanks... we puttem back in, what does your fellow Moss want?
<u>I</u> dunno.... Ambassador to <u>Togo</u>, somethin', <u>I</u> dunno... he...
Maybe he's just a <u>patriot</u>.
Yeah...what was I talking about...?
How long you been up, you need a nap.
Due in Nashville.
<u>Nashville</u>...?
We're gonna do the <u>Team Song</u>.
You're tired, Ronnie.
...this is magnificent.
...Stanley Moss...
None of these are ours. <u>None</u> of em are ours.... ....that's <u>real politik</u>, Buddy.
...I just missed my plane.
You missed your <u>plane</u>? My <u>life</u> is over. My <u>life</u> is over. What have you <u>done</u> to me? What have I done? Fourteen years of Public Service...
Well, keep your <u>wits</u> about you, and let's see if we can't...
...fourteen years...
...brazen-it-through...
And I'd like to point out that I've been on prescription <u>medication</u>, the side-effects of which...
No. I was busy. Yes, I need the new poll fig.... <u>how</u> long? I'll call in from Nashville. And patch me through to the Big Bird, will...? I've got to <u>hand</u> it to you. <u>They</u> sure let us out of there easy....
He just got Hip to us. He just ended the War.
What are we going to do?
Oh, God...
Oh, Lord....
...those limp-dick ... <u>turncoat</u>... I <u>thought</u> they let us out of there too easy.....
War's over, Pal.
He thinks it's too...
Ronnie says we don't need'em for another four days. ...s'there a problem?
No. No...Pentagon says, Army's got'em, they got'm in ..."Custody"...
How's your wife?
Pride of a job-well-done...
That's not bad at all.
Well, you know, "The Whole Thing's Theatre..."
...child at the airport... breaks through the ranks, runs to "old shoe" -- should we have <u>flower</u> or a <u>bear</u>...?
Uh...Didn't we <u>do</u> this?
Wilfred.
...what have you <u>done</u> to me...
All Combat takes place at night, in the Rain, and at the Junction of four Map Segments...
Give'em another pill...
No. No. He didn't mean anything by it at <u>all</u>...
Courage, Mom.
... and he spent the last twelve years in a Milit&ry Prison...
What about him?
... you want Schumann saved by an Illegal Alien...?
Stanley, you can't do this....
Oh, MiGod.
Guess who <u>I</u> am.
I'd like to mention a few <u>names</u>, who...
I know who you are, Mr. Ames.
I was acting as a Private Citizen. Nothing that I've done should be construed as reflecting on the orders or intentions of anyone with whom you may have reason to believe I am connected with. Or in whose <u>employ</u>...
Quite touching.
And I take this <u>opportunity</u> to suggest that, equally, I admit to <u>nothing</u>, and that I would like my lawyer present.
As are we all, and I'd like to take this opportunity to suggest that the Security of the country would be ill- served by any, any...any...
Any untoward "revelation" regarding, uh...
THE PLANE, IN A VIOLENT RAINSTORM, BUCKING WILDLY. AMES, ON HIS KNEES, GATHERING UP THE PILLS, REPLACES THEM IN THE VIAL, SHAKES OUT TWO, AND GIVES THEM TO SCHUMANN. WHO TAKES THEM. MOSS THEN STRAPS HIMSELF BACK IN AND BREAN CONTINUES TALKING ON THE TELEPHONE.
"...where's my pill..."
ON SCHUMANN, WHO HAS CONE TO THE BACK OF THE COUNTER, AND IS EMPTYING THE CANNISTERS.
...where is my pill?
ON THE MEN, IN THE ROOM, ARGUING ABOUT THE ILLEGAL ALIEN, SCHUMANN IN THE B.G.
The threat of Nuc1ear Terrorism has been quelled. We are in <u>contaot</u> with the Albanian Premier, who assures me, and this government <u>credits</u> his assurances, that his country does not wish us ill, and <u>has</u> not. That the threat which we perceived was not of his wish, or of his making.
CAIN, MOUTHING ALONG, WITH THE SPEECH, SHE LOOKS DOWN, AND WE SEE WRITTEN, ON HER COPY. of his making
AS WE LOOK UP, WE SEE THE PRESIDENT BITING HIS LIP, AND CONTINUING WITH THE SPEECH.
From whence did it come? Our information states it came from a small group of armed, dissidents. Of Armed and Violent Dissidents...
But that group has been, in the main, subdued. Now: How did we come by this information? And. Who subdued that group?
CAIN LOOKS DOWN AT HER SCRIPT. SHRUGS, AND LOOKS UP.
ON THE PRESSCORP, THE REPORTERS, LISTENING WIDEMOUTHED, TO THE PRESIDENT'S SPEECH.
...member of the group, was left behind what were, then, Enemy Lines.
ON LIZ, AS SHE WALKS THROUGH THE H.Q., ON A BOARD WE SEE "DAYS TILL ELECTION 6" AND % IN FAVOR 82%. A HUGE TV SHOWS THE PRESIDENT.
THE PRESIDENT, HOLDING THE PHOTOGRAPH
YOUNG PERSON'S APARTMENT, NIGHT.
OVER A SLEEPING BREAN, STRETCHED OUT ON A POOLCHAIR, GRACE, THE SECRETARY, COMES OUT ON TO THE POOL AREA, HOLDING THE SHOT OF A SMALL, FOREIGN LOOKING CHILD, IN FRONT OF A PILE OF RUBBLE. SHE SHOWS IT TO MOSS.
But, you know, <u>this</u> is the meeting, Ron? You think about it. <u>This</u> is the meeting. This, here. Schumann and us. King Kong and the Trainers...this's it... What are you working on?
THE CROWDS AT ANDREW'S AIRKORCE BASE, THE "OLD SHOE" BANNERS, THE "COURAGE, MOM," BANNERS. THE STILL BAND. A SHOT OF THE BANDMASTER, SURREPTITIOUSLY, GLANCING AT HIS WATCH.
This is nothing. ...piece of cake. Y'know, producing is being a Samurai Warrior. They pay you, day in, day out, for Years, so that, ONE DAY, when <u>called</u> upon, you can respond, your training At Its Peak, and save the day.
ON BREAN AND MOSS, WHO WALK SCHUMANN ACROSS THE HIGHWAY. IN THE B.G. WE SEE AMES TALKING TO THE DRIVER OF THE HARVESTER, WHO IS A SMALL, HISPANIC MAN.
ON MOSS, AS HE WALKS THE GROGGY SCHUMANN TOWARD THE GAS STATION.
ON THE GAS STATION OWNER, WHO HAS RETREATED TO HIS COUNTER AND PRODUCES A SHOTGUN, AND STARTS TO LOAD IT.
I gotta get something, I gotta get ...shoes? Ties? Hats...? Good. Good.
Would somebody wake me in five minutes?
Does it <u>have</u> to be Albania? Because, lookit: I can get my hands on a lot of walking-around-cash, I think, if it's <u>Italy</u>...Look at the tie-in here: <u>The</u> <u>Boot</u>, "Givvem the <u>Boot</u>,"... If we were to go Wide with a <u>shoe</u> as the fad. A "Shoe-fad"... Here's what it offers us...
We're locked into Albania.
Well, let's not be too sure, why is that?
Hello...?
Schumann. We're gonna go pick him up tonight.
Where is he?
Well, c'n we get him back home?
We're due at Andrews.
Captain... You wanna Take'er up...?
Heavy weather East of here.
Whaddaya think?
Course there's a war. I'm watching it on Television.
N'who might <u>you</u> be, when all's said and done?
My name is Ronald Brean.
Who're you working for?
Nobody whose name you want me to say, Mr. Young, I promise you.
S'all very well, but when the Fit hits the Shan, somebody's going to have to Stay After School, and who do you 'spose that might be.
S'only got to hold for another few days.
Well, I'm not interested in how long its "got to hold for."
What <u>are</u> you interested in?
Well, I'm sure that speaks very well of you and for your parents. But if forced to choose between the security of the country and the security of your Job, which would you pick. And, while you hesitate, permit me to suggest that they are one and the same. Your country and your job.
What's on your mind?
I have a question for you.
Ask it.
Why do people go to war?
Why do people go to war?
I'll play your silly game.
Why do they go to War?
To preserve their Way of Life.
Would you go to War to do that?
I have.
It can be documented that he displayed the...
This ain't the illegal immigrant Nanny.
...why?
...you the Press Office?
...Yes.
Earn your money. ...He's ill, the Plane is sick...
What's more interesting than boffing the girlscout?
Is there a press conference today?
But there isn't a B-2 bomber.
Where'd you go to school, Kid. Wellesly?
Dartmouth
China.
When's he coming back...?
Touchdown, Andrews, fourteen hundred, today.
Trade Re1ations.
You're goddamn right. And it's got nothing to do with the B-2 Bomber.
There <u>is</u> no B-2 Bomber,
How much...?
Do I know you?
And you're here <u>why</u>...?
I'm here, Mr. Moss, because you've shown yourself a great supporter of the Party.
What one has to do, Mr. Moss. Is to fight a holding action.
...holding action. THEY'RE GOING TO TEAR THIS GUY TO <u>Shreds</u>.
If we can hold the break-in-the-dam for ten days, til the election, we...
What do you want the kid to say?
String a few together. All I need's eleven,
How you going to stretch it? This won't hold for eleven days. Guy fucked a twelve- year-old...whadday're gonna do to hold that off?
What do you think would hold it off?
Uh, <u>nothing</u>, oh, <u>nothing</u> ... uh... a <u>War</u>, uh... You're kidding.
I'm a Jew in Show Business. Why come to me?
I'm gonna <u>tell</u> you why...
Here's the Short Course: Fifty-Four, Forty or Fight. What does <u>that</u> mean?
Uh, it's a slogan. From, uh...
Remember the Maine...
That's from the ... it's got to be from the...
Tippecanoe and Tyler, Too!
...uh ... No, that's...
It's like being a producer, Mr. Moss. The Things in Trouble. Somebody's got to wade in, save the thing. You get the Actors get up there, and strut and <u>Posture</u>. But somebody, knows what's what, got to jump in and Save the Thing.
Why Albania?
Who?
The...
"They Got To Know?" <u>Stan</u>...? Get with it. Who Killed Kennedy...? I read the first draft of the Warren Report, said he was killed by a Drunk <u>Driver</u>. You watched the Gulf War. What did you see? Day after day, the one "Smart Bomb" falling into a building. The <u>truth</u>, I was in the building when they <u>shot</u> that shot, they shot it in
Is that true?
How the fuck do <u>we</u> know. You take my point?
...going to War...
It's not "war." It is a <u>Pageant</u>. It's a <u>Pageant</u>... Like the Oscars... why we came to <u>you</u>...
I never won an Oscar.
N'it's a crying shame. But you <u>staged</u> the Oscars...
Yes. Indeed I did.
You know, you're a <u>writer</u>, that's your script. You're a <u>director</u>... But if you're the <u>producer</u> ... what did you do? What did you do? All you've got is the <u>credit</u>... Some plaque on the wall...
And <u>if</u> you never won an Oscar, How'd you like an ambassadorship...
Hell, I'd just do it for the <u>hell</u> of having <u>done</u> it, for a story to tell...
Well, no, well, you couldn't <u>tell</u> any...
Hey, I know that, hey, I'm <u>kidding</u>... "It's a pageant"
...that's what it is.
"The Country Is At War."
It's Miss America, N'you're Bert Parks.
...Yoha, Yoha... Yoha. <i>Why</i> Albania?
Because.
They got to have something that we want.
I'm sure they do.
What do we have that they want?
"Freedom."
...who is this guy...?
Act Two: and then, Act Two...
We don't need an Act Two.
And get me the Fad King. No. Get him First... We don't need an Act Two?
We've just got to hold their interest for ten more days, till the Election.
...it's a Teaser!
You can't have a war without an enemy.
No, King, I need you here <u>yesterday</u>... How long do I need him for?
Well, you could <u>have</u> one, but it'd be a very ineffective war... We're <u>done</u> in 10 days...
Ten Days. There going to be any Back End in this thing?
W...what?
...there gonna be any money in this thing?
"Back End" ... count on it.
King, King, I got a thing here, a product placement, gonna have a bigger back-end than Hattie McDaniel. Now:
Three-o-three...
What is it?
President's speech.
At the Airport? Cause we decided at the Airport he hugs the fat, wet Albanian Broad, we...
What?
The War ain't over.
I saw it on TV.
What're you gonna do with Morse Code?
...we put your Guy in a <u>sweater</u>...
Yeah...?
He can't respond to the Allegations. I don't care <u>how</u> many girlscouts are picketing the ... look, look, look, we're coming home with <u>Gold</u>. Eh? Tell him to hold firm for <u>two hours</u>... coming home with Gold.
I think it's fine?
It's not too <u>clean</u>...
In the Folk Music Section.
...this the Guy.
Oh, he's gonna be Aces.
Where is he now?
Some, military... Special Program, Oklahoma somewhere...
...we get our hands on him?
They got him standing by.
What's the thing with Morse Code...
My prop guy, had a guy out here.
What?
Not bad for government work. Having a good time.
Mmm...
You do your job right, nobody should notice.
Mmm.
S'only when you fuck up, everything gets full of shit. Do you think we could line him up for the Peace Prize?
Hey, our job ends at the Finish Line.
Yes, but I, well, <u>you</u> know...
Just for the Symmetry of the thing...?
...that's right.
If they can give Kissenger the Peace Prize, I wouldn't be surprised to wake up and find I'd won the Preakness.
Well, yes, but the guy <u>did</u> bring Peace.
Yes, but there wasn't a War.
Inaugural Speech, press corp's gonna be jealous of giving up that one...
Hey, lemme close out the thing in style.
I've come to feel It's my thing. You know, you take a job... You take a job, and, many times, it's <u>just</u> a job. And then...
Hell of a Ride, Stanley...
Against...who could be aggressor....Help me out here...Units of 303, the Defense Department confirms, early this morning, Albanian Time, stormed a mountain hideaway, near the city of -- help me out here -- and freed a tired, but happy William Schumann, Suffering no casualties. His condition is reported as Guarded, and his route to the US has not been disclosed, but a high White House
...we'll gettim in their cars.
Yeah, we'll gettem in their cars. I'm slowing down... No, no. Look, lookit: I think it's a mistake, well, I'll <u>tell</u> you why: you got'em by the balls, <u>Squeeze</u>. Because Schumann's the Shark. He's ...<u>Jaws</u>. You have to <u>tease</u>'em... You don't puttem in the first reel of the movie... Bring'em back <u>slow</u>, the President... No, no, put him on. Put him on. President wants
Big mistake.
Hell, yes, we're, we're on our way to get him now. No. Lookit: it's like a girl with her virginity, y'understand...
Guy says he'll respect her tomorrow, he <u>might</u>, but why take a chance? Hold out til after you're married. That's... that's.... looky, we're offering'em Schumann, make em <u>vote</u> for hhhh.... psychologically, they will understand that that's the bargain. Make them pay for him. Make... that's right, the price is their vote. Now, we bring him home, the President announces he is flying <u>home</u>, he's
Hey, lcokit: <u>any</u> business...
Ain't <u>that</u> the truth.
Whattaya gonna do when this is all over?
What am <u>I</u> gonna do? I'm gonna "Fade Away." What are you gonna do?
We pick up Schumann. Sneak him back inside the Beltway. And we plan his homecoming. Zt's gone be Neil Armstrong, Dr. Livingston, and <u>Lindy</u>...They're gonna forget, they're gonna forget, they're gonna forget that there <u>is</u> an election...The Pres's gonna have to say, one of his speeches, "Don't forget to Vote..."
I got it in the inaugural. "Thank you for voting for me, but, <u>as</u> importantly: Thank you for <u>voting</u>...
Getting off on the inaugural? Gonna go...
Medal. Medal and Ribbon.
Of what?
The Albanian Campaign.
...the Albanian Campaign. And we won't even be a footnote...
They should be. Most valuable animal since Sea Biscuit. <u>Isn't</u> he...
Bigger than that. For want of a nail a <u>Kingdom</u> was lost...
...a masterpiece...
I thought they weren't meeting him at the airport...
They insist they wanna go with meeting him at the airport. I told'em they're wrong, I can't convince'em. They're concerned that the last kid had the <u>Wheat</u>. Variations include, the kid is a <u>boy</u>, the kid is <u>twins</u>, it's a little <u>dog</u> ... they rub meat on Schumann's cuff, the dog runs to him...
I think we asked for "special programs" and they gave us "special prisons."
A slight, a slight, well, no, we're gonna <u>deal</u> with it, we just, I need a little readjustment...we need to re<u>think</u>...
He's fine, as long as he gets his medication.
Just....do what I ...look: get me a ...hello...? Hel...? I'm going to need an <u>ambulance</u>, we take him, the last moment, right from the Pl...no, <u>we</u> land, we puttem <u>in</u> the ambulance. Air force jet lands, we take somebody <u>else</u> off <u>that</u> jet...what the fuck do <u>I</u> care? Somebody in a Hospital gown. And we need a ......hello? Hello...?
Cause I don't think <u>this</u> dog is gonna hunt....
He's going to be fine, aren't you boy...?
Yeah, well, perhaps... Speaking of which: I have a <u>prescription</u> here, I'm going to give you the <u>number</u>, I need you standing by with a <u>crate</u> of the stuff.... it's ... what is it?
An anti-psychotic...
Mmm.
...what happened...?
I think we were experiencing a Little Technical Difficulty.
What the hell do <u>we</u> care?
Wake up.
No, I didn't think so.
Y'know what else bothers me? "Shh lil baby, don' saya word, papa's gon buy you a mocking bird..." The baby don'say a word, WHAT THE FUCK IS THE MOTHERFUCKING MOCKING BIRD GONE SAY? You follow me...?
Get on your feet, boy.
Uh huh...why?
We're going home. We're going home together...
We have no home. We're vagrants. N'each man's hand's against us. We killed Old Shoe... We killed the Schuster...spend our life in a packingcrate...Where are you <u>going</u>...?
I'm tired.
Finish Strong! Are you <u>nuts</u>? Are you nuts? This's Pennies from <u>Heaven</u>... on his triumphal return home, Old Shoe, his Plane Forced Down...AND YET...
He's supposed to be flying in from Europe.
You can't tell this story.
Why not?
Some'b'y'll have you killed.
You would be, two, if you'd gone through what he went through.
He raped a <u>Nun</u>...
What he went through in <u>Albania</u>...
No, I'm On Top of it...
"...unsure whether or not Enemy Action..."
No, I'm fine... I got it together....
...but...
Pals: Get on the <u>phone</u>... r'they flying it?
They'll be here in ten minutes.
Hell of a show. Hell of a job, Stan.
...one more day.
You see? What's the lesson here? <u>Never</u> give up. <u>Never</u> give up.
No. You're right.
Show Must Go On.
A proud tradition.
What're you doing?
I'm looking for a phone...
No, I don't think you can <u>do</u> that.
Watch me.
No, I don't think you can <u>do</u> that, Stanley...
Watch me.
Stanley. Stanley... you knew the... Stanley. You knew the deal when you signed <u>on</u>.
Deal's changed.
No, the deal <u>isn't</u> changed. The Deal <u>isn't</u> changed. You can't ... what is it? Money? <u>Money</u>? You want Money?
<u>Money</u>? You think I did this for money...? I did this for <u>Credit</u>. <u>Credit</u>, paalll...
But you always knew you couldn't <u>take</u> the credit....
Don't tune it too good.
William Schuman. Old Shoe. U.S. Army. Serial number, 21-31-2841-262.
Hold it a minute, Benny, willya?
It's too clean.
Let's take the bridge from <u>nine</u>, and the intro from <u>one</u>, and...
It's got to sound like an <u>acetate</u> recording, 1930.
Look, look, look, look, Canada, okay...? Our neighbor to the North, alla sudden, transformed, into That Place, where, like the North Wind, <u>Terror</u> comes...
Keep Talking....
...what am I <u>doing</u>? Do you see me working...? Here's what you want to do, you want to come out of the box, an item, someone 'ready <u>has</u>, but <u>then</u> you sell it to'em. Torn <u>jeans</u>, uh ... faded Levi Jackets, uh... uh...
Headshots. Girls to play the girl in our footage. I like the sorrowful one. Anybody Else....?
I go with this here...
Bunny: I had an idea: a Slinky, that falls <u>Up</u>... Naa, we can figure that <u>out</u>. What I'm wondering: what do we <u>call</u> it... You got my number...
We got the guy, we got the guy, we got the Guy!
It's like those Japanese in the Caves on Okinawa... didn't believe the War was Over.
...what do you got?
All part of the Service we Render.
He ain't seen <u>nothin'</u> yet.
Going to make a little stop back home, pick up my shirts, show him a little treat.
See y'at the Finish Line.
Why can't it be a ribbon?
Uh...uh... Mounties. The Mounties Guard The Border. uh... those Mountie Hats.
They look stupid.
We had Davy Crockett hats... They made a fortune.
Shoes, Hats....
Black...
Well, <u>that</u> ain't very butch, is it?
...I meant the Leopard Skin...
British Regiments drape their drums in Leopard Skins.
I have the White House on the Line.
...the Suitcase Bomb. ACT ONE Albania denies it. President comes on the air, "Be Calm." Okay, now: Good. Now, Alright. Act <u>TWO</u>... I need the following here. Right now: Johnnie Green, Liz Butsky, and get me the Fad King.
Isn't Johnny Green in the...
Public Domain.
And what? What? She was Driven From Her Home, by Albanian Terrorists. It is her we are mobilizing to defend... it is "she"?
We-are-mobilizing-to-defend-<u>her</u>.
Can we give'er a <u>kitten</u>?
I didn't ask for a dog.
Do it later... Okay, now, "The Little Girl," who is she, what is she doing? She is....she's ...Okay, okay, it's an Albanian village... She is the victim of, she has been <u>relocated</u>, to, to, for the <u>terrorists</u>, the Government Labs...the, the... a <u>staging</u> area for their Atomic workshop. They're torturing her family, because they have connections in Canada, which would permit the terrorists access
Better.
You like it?
Yes.
It's tough to rhyme.
I believe in you....
Albania, Albania, Albania, James bond Villains.
John Belushi... <u>Jim</u> Belushi...
Jim Belushi...?
They guard our, <u>you</u> know ... "borders," night and day...
What would be true, then.
Well, you said it yourself, earlier, and if I may rephrase, that the success of the President, in the Polls...
...as of today, 89% favorable.
...by you?
By the media, by, yes, by, in this case, our organization.
The Special Anti-Terrorist Detachment of the Border Patrol... what do they <u>do</u>...?
Oh huh...
...they have the capacity to Meld into the <u>Woods</u>, and...
And one of them is in love with the <u>sister</u> of...
I'm just talking about the Hats.
The hats.
A beret.
Why a beret?
Cause you can crush it and put it in your pocket.
With their berets...
I need a ruling on the Hats. I say a Leopard-skin, and...
Someone's bringing in a kitten...?
No, no, no.... we'll punch <u>in</u> a kitten. Um... <u>Later</u>.
...you're gonna Punch in a Kitten Later.
Yes.
A wider option of what?
Long's you git me back for the beans...
This is <u>nothing</u>, Wait'll you've worked with a movie star, one time, this is nothing, we keep him shot-up and happy -- the Old Days, I used to think I was a <u>pharmacist</u>, the kind of stuff I had to do. One time...
What the fuck did you <u>mean</u>, "What kind of stuff?"?
...this is nothing. This is nothing. D'you ever shoot in <u>Italy</u>? Try three Italian starlets on Benzedrine, this is a walk in the park...
Just want to take a nap.
He's not dead, Ronnie. He's just a little understandab1y, <u>fatigued</u>. Let's get him to some help...
...gimme some help...
That's right, we'll take a nap. We'll get you to Washington, we'll get you Back to your Buddies, and...
...just want to Get Back to the Beans...
...where's my l'il <u>pill</u>?
...mmm.
...'bout ready to Mix it Up...?
Yup.
Oh, hell...
Susie? Susie. Are you alright...? <u>Susie</u>...
Lemme talk to him. Will? Shoe?
SUSIE...? Are you alright...?
....beautiful.
Of course, we're gonna need some <u>water</u>, uh...
Is it a <u>stream</u>, or is it a...
No, I think..
a "pond," or
Look Harold, they're vulnerable, alright, but we don't want 'em to think they're under accumulation. Go slow. Call Geneva and the Bahamas for me, will ya? We feint towards it but we wait...
What about tipping off Yurovich?
Gordon, the insurance people are balking on the logging trucks...
Who the hell's out there? What are the arbs saying? It's gotta be a big hitter.
Fox says Bluestar just hit 23. What do you want him to do?
Hi...can I buy you a drink? I'm celebrating tonight.
Please, no thanks...
Look, I know you get approached a lot by dubious men, but I'm different, I never talk to strangers, all my life I've been waiting for the right person to walk across the room... you're that person, you don't know it but I do and if you walk away now I'll never see you again or you me. You'll grow old.
Oh really.
Grand Marnier.
Sounds like a french word, what is it?
It's a romantic and tragic drink.
... That's what you told us to say.
He's lying.
If I'm closing out this account. If he doesn't pay for it tomorrow, you pay for it.
Mr. Lynch, I swear to you, he's lying!
Fox, you're making more problems than you are sales.
I don't think you're being fair, sir. You assigned me this guy, and you know he's got a history...
Nice piece of work, Fox. Why don't you join me and the partners for lunch tomorrow in the dining room?
Thank you, Janet...thank you, Mr. Lynch.
...hey Chuckie, how's the woman- slayer?
...still looking for the right 18 year old wife, how you doing, pal?
...if I had your looks, better.
...takes years of genetics, pal, and a Yale education... and the right tailor.
Buddy boy, how ya doing?
Wanna play some tennis Saturday?
You mean teach you how to play. Can't. Going fly fishing in Canada, big client...
...you take that Anacott Steel?
So whaddaya say pal, wanna play some doubles at Piping? Meet the membership? I got a little blonde named Mandy, about nineteen, avec cafe au lait boobs... she's mine but she's got a cousin who has great muffins.
I gotta feeling we're going to make a killing today, Marv.
Yeah, where's your machine gun.
Looks bearish to me, buddy. You got it all upside down. Okay, I'm giving this to you and you alone, 'cause I feel sorry for you. Take the Knicks against the Bullets, and my pick of the day -- Duke to beat the spread against Wake Forest.
Buddy, buddy, buddy; little trouble, huh, today.
Howard the Jerk reneged on me. I've got to cover his loss to the tune of about seven grand! I'm tapped out man, American Express got a hit man looking for me.
Thanks Marv, I'll make it good to you. You know what my dream is? One day to be on the other end of that phone...
Buddy, buddy, when ya gonna realize it's big game hunters that bag the elephants, not retail brokers. I heard this story about Gekko... he was on the phone 30 seconds after the Challenger blew up selling NASA stocks short.
Hello, Natalie -- guess who? That's right, and you know everyday I say to myself, today could be the day... So what do you say... will you marry me? Then please can you get me through to Mr. Gekko?
It concerns his future!
...well, see him?
Yeah, but he didn't see me.
...got tickets for the Knicks tonight. Go out and cruise some bimbos afterwards, whaddaya say?
...gotta read my reports.
Nice guy but a loser. Lost all his equity when his firm went belly up in the recession of 71. you wanna be coming in here in your late sixties still pitching? ... Whatever happened to that cute analyst at Thudder, Wicks? ... Cindy? Susan?
Got a little action there, eh buddy?
Buddy, buddy, some buddy; why didn't you tell me to buy Bluestar.
Hey Marv, he demanded confidentiality...
Gimme a break. You buy Bluestar Airlines yesterday. Today they just happen to get good news and the stock goes bat shit. You must have ESP. A real Nostradamus. Jesus Christ, what are friends for?
All right, I owe you one Marv.
What the hell...
What's going on?
Hey you hear the news. I just got a job at a new firm: "Dewey, Cheat 'em and Howe." Yuk yuk.
Didn't I tell you to knock before you came in here?
Hey the door was open.
Then get out and close it behind you.
You know what you need, buddy buddy--an optorectomy. That's when they cut the nerve that runs from your brain to your rectum--to change that shitty attitude of yours.
I agree. Go thou and sin no more.
I want to make it up to you. Bluestar, put all your clients in it.
The stock's going to Pluto!
Start unloading.
Sell?
...leave me alone willya. Only thing makes me feel good anymore. Spaghetti. She makes lousy spaghetti...
... looks like you grown another inch... but you don't look so hot, getting bags under your eyes, starting to look old like me.
Ah, I had a tough day. Some jerk D.K'd me and I gotta cover his loss.
Speak English will ya.
D.K. -- didn't know -- who I was when the options he bought took a bath. He reneged on me.
I told you not to go into that racket. You could've been a doctor or a lawyer,
Coulda been a contender.
you coulda stayed at Bluestar and been a supervisor in instead of going customer relations by now, 'stead of going off and bein' a salesman.
Look Dad, I'm not a salesman. How many times I gotta tell you I'm an account executive, and pretty soon I'm going to the investment banking side of the firm.
You get on the phone and ask strangers for their money, right? You're a salesman.
Dad, it takes time. You gotta build a customer list. I'm doing it. I could make more money in one year as a broker than five years at the airline.
I don't get it, you get a scholarship to NYU, you get 35,000 the first year, and 50 last year, where the hell is it?
50 K don't get you to first base in the Big Apple, Dad, not any more. I pay 40% in taxes, I got a rent of 15,000, I got school loans, car loans, food, park my car costs me 3 bills a month, I need good suits, that's $500 a pop, shoes...
So come home and live rent free, 'stead of that cockroach palace you live in. $50,000 Jesus Christ, the world is off its rocker. I made $37,000 last year and you...
It's Queens, Dad and a 5% mortgage and you rent the top room--I gotta live in Manhattan to be a player, Dad. There's no nobility in poverty anymore, y'know. One day you're going to be proud of me, you'll see...
It's yourself you've got to be proud of, Huckleberry, how much ya need?
...Got a 100 on me, you...
... it adds up Buddy, 300 here, 200 there. Your brother never... ...well, I always said money is something you need in case you don't die tomorrow...
...same, pain in the ass, god bless her, talks too much... gonna take her to Florida next month... west coast, near Tampa, like to get out for good, but can't afford it.
...Work okay?
That's great Dad.
Damn right, it gets us out from under suspension. We'll get those new routes to Pittsburgh and Boston and the equipment we need. We're gonna compete with the big boys now.
You sure about this FAA announcement?
About what?
The FAA announcement.
What brings you out here...
Client. Got a private jet over at Butler Aviation... Dad, you always gotta light up when you see me, it's the...
Don't start, alright.
Alright. Why so pissed?
Sure...lots of guys at the track talk like that... but how do you know you'll have any dough next month... What's this? I gave you two hundred.
Dividend. I figure I owe you about five thousand in nickels and dimes...
...don't be crazy. Put it to your school loans.
Don't worry about the loans. I'm doing good Dad and it's gonna stay that way now... least buy yourself a new suit.
Problem with money is you never have enough or you got too much -- and when you got it you're never happy 'cause somebody's always trying to take it away from you. Money's one giant pain in the ass y'ask me... thanks.
... Dad, you should've been a CEO. How about dinner?
Whatever night you like.
Wait... next week's booked. Let me check with my girl and get back to you on Monday.
Yeah, you do that huckleberry. I'll still be here.
Dad, you know Duncan Wilmore, pilot's union, and Toni Carpenter, flight attendants...
He's got your prick in his back pocket, son, and you're standing naked in the display window of Macy's. He's using you. Only you're too blind to see it.
No, what I see is a jealous old machinist who can't stand that his son's become more successful than himself.
What you see, son, is a man who never measured success by the size of a man's wallet.
That's because you never had the guts to go out into the world and stake your claim.
...as far as being axed, I'm still here and as long as I am, I have a responsibility not just to me but to the union members I represent...
Your responsibility, Dad, is to present the facts, not your opinions, to the men... you're gonna destroy their lives, Dad! Don't do it to 'em. Give it a chance. Let the membership decide for themselves, Dad. Please.
I'll be damned that when my men come to me tomorrow morning, wanting to know what's going on, I'm going to lie to them!
Your words, not mine...
Another cup of coffee?
No, thanks, I'm nervous enough.
I guess it's time to hit the road.
Dad, I'm going to jail and you know it.
Hello, Natalie, you recognize the voice? I'll give you a hint, you're thinking seriously about marrying me...
What are you doing here?
...And you're even lovelier than I pictured. I brought a birthday present for Mr. Gekko.
It's in the bible, see. You better go buy him a present. Please, Natalie. Let me give him the gift; Cuban cigars--Davidoff, his favorite and hard to get.
...thanks Natalie.
Sure, and I'm never gonna die either, is this one of your chain letter schemes or do I gotta buy a door to door cosmetic franchise in Northern Arkansas?
...this guy who said he was from the Security Exchange Commission, whatever the hell that is, calls and wants to ask me about that stock I bought...
What'd you tell him?
I told him I was in the bathroom and I'd call him right back. What the hell was I supposed to say Buddy, you got me into...
Look Dixon, calm down! It's not illegal to buy stock or to be right. And it's not all that unusual to be spot checked on a big buy. Tell him you did your homework and you thought the stock was a sound investment.
What if he asks where I got the money?
Tell 'em your father gave it to you.
What if they call him?
They won't. That's not their jurisdiction.
You sure?
Yes! Read the Constitution, it's all in there. And remember--you don't know anything, nothing.
I don't know anything!
Hello Bud, I'm Lisa, a friend of Gordon's.
Lisa. Gordon? Oh, Mr. Gekko. Sure. Would you, uh, like to come in?
Didn't he tell you? That's so like Gordon. Get dressed, we're going out.
So, where are we going?
Want some? Gordon tells me you're a very talented broker. What do you like?
Like? Uh...hmmm. Well...
I got this guy who should know tells me buy Hewlitt Packard but I been burned on tips. What do you think Bud?
Rising profits...strong balance sheets, good earnings per share.
So you're hot on this stock?
Fox, Bud D. is this deja vu or has it really been a year. You're not hitting me up for NYU are you?
Well we're thinking of putting up a statue of you in the subway. I hear you're moving up in the world. An associate already. Not bad. How's Margie?
Can't complain. Got a house in Oyster Bay. Market treating you good? Still seeing that sexy French gal?
Nah, she asked the wrong question.
What was that?
"What are you thinking?"...that was it. The hours are hell, but the money's starting to tumble in. I know this guy who's got an iron- clad way to make money, I can't lose and I can't get hurt.
So, does "this guy" have a tip for an honest lawyer?
Yeah, check out Teldar Paper, it's still not over.
Okay.
What about you, I hear you guys are handling the Fairchild Foods merger and it may not be going through. Any surprises I haven't read about in the Wall Street Journal?
Come on Buddy, you wouldn't want to got me disbarred now would you?
Who's listening? It's just one college buddy talking to another.
Yeah, right...
Relax, Roger, everybody's doing it but you don't know, you don't know.
More money than you ever dreamed, Roger. And the thing is no one gets hurt...how bout a beer?
...and you don't have to put up a dime, Roger.
So what's the problem?
...got a strange call from the SEC. They asked to see my records... Bud, this is a heavy...
....Relax Roget You're 82M in the account numbers and I'm the Invisible Man... they're always looking for red flags, Gekko's always getting checked by them, they never come up with anything... we're invulnerable on this...
Alright... I just wanna slow down Bud... no more calls for awhile, no lunches... we suspend our business, alright...
Gekko asked us into the Bluestar deal. We're reviewing the timetables, wanna come?
He never told me...
How do you do Mr. Gekko. I'm Bud Fox.
So what s on your mind kimosabe? Why am I listening to you? Got to monitor my blood pressure, so whatever you do, don't upset me.
Oh no, no...
Within 45 seconds, a microprocessor computes your systolic and diastolic pressure. Has an LCD readout, and it's cost effective -- less than one visit to the doctor.
I just want to let you know Mr. Gekko I read all about you at NYU Business, and I think you're an incredible genius and I've always dreamed of only one thing -- to do business with a man like you...
So what firm you with, pal?
Jackson, Steinem...
...going places, good junk bond department, you got the financing on that Syndicam deal.
...Yeah, and we're working on some other interesting stuff.
...A cosmetics company by any chance? What are you, the 12th man on the deal team? The last to know?
Can't tell you that, Mr. Gekko.
Chart break-out on this one here...uh Whitewood-Young Industries...low P.E. Explosive earnings. 30% discount from book. Great cash flow. Coupla 5% holders. Strong management.
...rings a bell somewhere. So what?
A comer. 80 medium-body jets. 300 pilots, flies northeast, Canada, some Florida and Caribbean routes... great slots in major cities...
...don't like airlines, lousy unions...
How do you know?
My home number's on the back...
Hi sport.
See this? Can you believe it? Two inch screen...
...I can't even see it...
...for my kid Rudy -- 3 years old, electronics freak, got a liquid crystal display 'stead of an electronic beam. We're going into a new age pal. So how's business today.
Bluestar was at 21 and an eighth when I left the office. It might spin up to 25 by the bell...
Teldar's shooting up. Buy any for yourself? Bet you were on the phone two minutes after you got out of my office.
No sir, that would've been illegal...
Mr. Gekko -- thank you for the chance. You won't regret this, you're with a winner.
...put the rest of it in a money market account for now. I want to see what you know before I invest it...and save the cheap salesman talk, it's obvious.
...come on sport, you gotta try harder, I need some exercise for chrissake...
Mr. Gekko, I don't think I can...go on.
Nice club, Mr. Gekko...
Yeah... not bad for a City College boy. Bought my way into this club and now every one of these ivy league schmucks is sucking my kneecaps...I just got on the Board of the Zoological Society, cost me a million; that's the thing with WASPS -- they like animals but they can't stand people!
I guess your father's not a union representative on that company.
What? How do you know about my father?
The most valuable commodity I know of is information. Wouldn't you agree on that?
Know the name?
'Course. Larry Wildman. One of the first raiders.
Sir Larry Wildman. Like all Brits he thinks he was born with a better pot to piss in... bribed an old secretary of mine to open bar mouth and stole RDL Pharmaceuticals right out from under me. Wildman the white knight.
Revenge is a dish best served cold... well, it's payback time, sport. ... see that building? I bought into it ten years ago. It was my first real estate deal. I sold it a couple of years later and made an $800,000 dollar profit. It was better than sex. At that time I thought that was all tne money in the world... Now, it's
I don't understand.
Wildman's in town. He just became an American citizen. Something big's about to go down. I want to know where he goes and who he sees. I want you, sport, to give me the missing half of the picture...
Follow him? Mr. Gekko I... It's not what I do. I could lose my license. If the SEC found out, I could go to jail. It's inside information, isn't it?
What about hard work?
I got all I could get which was 750,000 shares plus 5000 March 50 calls. Average price of $47 a share And $4 per contract for the call. I just wish I could've got more.
I'll be right there, fix them a drink.
...we have 37.2 million invested. At this point, we're up 3.1 million and some change. If it goes to 75 bucks we can clean close to 12 mill.
You're walking between the raindrops kid. I expect Sir Larry is choking on his royal chamber pot by now.
My firm needs your signature on these option agreements tonight, sir, otherwise we could take a real bath tomorrow.
Sorry, Mr. Gekko.
I guess I'll head back...
The break up value is higher. It's worth 80.
He's right. I had to sell. The key to the game is your capital reserves. You don't have enough, you can't pee in the tall weeds with the big dogs.
"All warfare is based on deception..." Sun Tzu says, If your enemy is superior, evade him, if angry, irritate him, if equally matched, fight... if not, split and reevaluate.
Money never sleeps pal. When I came in in '69, they traded six hours a day, now the clock don't stop, London's deregulated, the Orient is hungrier than us. Just let the money circle the world, sport, buying and selling, and if you're smart it comes back paying. I just made $800,000 in Hong Kong gold. It's been wired to you -- play with
Mr. Gekko, I'm there for you 110%.
You don't understand. I want to be surprised...astonish me, sport, new info, don't care where or how you get it, just get it... My wife tells me you put a move on Darien. Here's some inside info for you. That Euroflash GQ guy she's going with's got big bucks but he's putting her feet to sleep. Exit visas are imminent. So don't lose your
...Gordon.
Got him at an auction in Kentucky.
How much?
The art of which is deception. Spread the buy orders through different accounts and you won't get burned...
Mixed emotions, Buddy: like Larry Wildman going off a cliff in my new Maserati. Men as smart as myself have got their asses handed to them on a sling with the airlines, fuel could go up, unions are killers...
Gordon what I want--and I never asked you for anything--is to be your co-pilot on this. I want to take this airline, turn it around, and make it work. It's gonna make us a fortune!
I'm talking to a stockbroker who wants to run an airline. It's gonna take me two years and 2000 headaches to turn Teldar Paper around, what do I need this dink airline for? I'm up to my ass in more nuts than a fruitcake.
Gordon, I worked at Bluestar, I know my way around, I have friends there...inside.
What does that mean?
The three unions. It's 43% of Bluestar's operating budget, the hourly cost of a flight crew is $850 an hour, that's the real hidden value G.G., if you can negotiate that out, get a crew down to $350-400 an hour a run, this airline is gonna be the hottest thing since Texas Air...
What makes you think you can?
I can talk to these people Gordon, they trust me...and my father can be a big help in getting cuts.
And I'd like to introduce you to Mr. Gekko, and his lawyer, Mr. Salt.
Now, wait a minute, Dad...
I didn't know we had a meeting schedule for this morning.
What the hell do you want?
Last night I read Rudy the story of Winnie the Pooh and the Honey pot. Know what happened: he stuck his nose in that honey pot once too often and got stung.
Maybe you ought to read him Pinocchio. You told me you were going to turn Bluestar around. Not upside down. You used me.
You're walking around blind without a cane, sport. A fool and his money are lucky to get together in the first place.
Why do you need to wreck this company?
Because it's wreckable. I took another look and I changed my mind.
If these people lose their jobs, nowhere to go. My father worked at Bluestar for twenty-four years. I gave 'em my word.
It's all about bucks, kid, the rest is conversation... Bud, you're still going to be president. And when the time comes, you'll parachute out a rich man. With the money you're going to make, your father won't have to work another day in his life.
Tell me, Gordon--when does it all end? How many yachts can you waterski behind? How much is enough?
Buddy, it's not a question of enough. It's a zero sum game, sport. Somebody wins and somebody loses. Money itself isn't lost or made, it's simply transferred from one perception to another. Like magic. That painting cost $60,000 10 years ago. I could sell it today for $600,000. The illusion has become real. And the more real it becomes, the more desperately they want
How much is enough Gordon?
The richest one percent of this country owns half the country's wealth: 5 trillion dollars. One third of that comes from hard work, two thirds of it comes from inheritance, interest on interest accumulation to widows and idiot sons and what I do -- stock and real estate speculation. It's bullshit. Ninety percent of the American people have little or no net worth. I
Believe me, Buddy, I was gonna discuss this with you at the right time. Look, why don't you calm down and come to the apartment for dinner tonight. Bring Darien...
...I can't make it tonight.
Gordon, it's two minutes to close. What do you want to do?! Decide.
Hello Bud.
Gordon.
Hello again, I been holding these drinks for us for the last three weeks.
Excuse me.
Grand Marnier. A romantic and tragic drink.
Oh yes, I remember you.
Destiny took us apart, but I knew it would bring us back together.
Aha. Poet or philosopher?
I'd give anything to have this in my house, even for a week.
...few thousand dollars down the drain if you ask me.
Oh really? Well, I guess you can kiss that career as an art appraiser goodbye, because we paid over four hundred thousand for it at the contemporary picture sale last June.
You could have a great beach house for that.
Sure you could, in Wildwood, New Jersey. If you sold this, you could have a pretty nice penthouse on Fifth. But you wouldn't have much left over for decoration.
Boy, I thought Gordon was a tough businessman, but somebody's really taking him to the cleaners here.
Not really. I'd say that Gordon is one of the most astute collectors around. He has a great eye and he only buys the best. Like this rug for instance, a silk Tabriz, the finest of its kind. The day after he bought it in London, a dealer representing the Saudi Royal Family offered him twice what he paid. It absolutely makes the room.
I gather you're a decorator.
You got it, a great spender of other people's money.
Well, if you're that good, you could probably do wonders at my place.
Where is it?
Upper West Side.
Oh really. Home of the exposed brick wall and the houseplant.
What if I have a previous engagement?
Break it.
I guess this must be destiny alright. My first yuppie apartment and... my first yuppie.
So. See you Friday.
You really do believe in destiny?
Devon? He looks like Seattle Slew. What about the Triple Crown?
He's not a racehorse, Bud, he's a jumper.
If I could have anything... this would almost do.
So, how did your conference go with Gordon?
The conference, oh yeah. Fine. We reached an agreement and decided to divide up the world between us.
You have modest wants. I like that in a man.
And what do you want?
...a Turner, a perfect canary diaiaond... a Lear jet... world peace... the best of everything...
Well, why stop at that?
I don't.
...isn't it perfect!
You know, the elevator man couldn't believe I paid $300,000 to have my walls looking like this, he's got them for free in Brooklyn.
I'll bet he's got an opinion on the stock market too. This apartment is already ahead of its time. I call it the "demolished" look. They've already heard about it at House and Garden and they're coming next week to photograph it before it gets... lived in. Is that alright? I'd love to have it in my portfolio.
Let's get things straight, Bud. I'm not going to take a cut. I worked hard and you can't decorate a room in New York for less than $100,000. Curtains alone...
I'm kidding, I'm kidding, we're still young, Darien. So what's money anyway when everybody's making it, it's all relative. After all, this is not the house in Connecticut, this is just a crash pad good for a couple of years...before we slip our two lovely kids, Yuppie and Fruppie into the Lycee Francaise.
You got it all charted out don't you, like a stock projection.
Do you think you're ready?
It's not me I'm worried about...You know Darien, the only reason we haven't slept together is because we both know we will -- and not knowing when was the only surprise left. You owe me, I want you, what else is there...but you, me, the world. ...right here...make love to me...now... Stop me if I'm going too far.
Bud, I hate to tell you this but you're a genius! Darien...lightning has struck! The lightbulb has been invented. Edison, Da Vinci, Einstein are watching...
...are you going to trade all night again? You got to go to work in a couple of hours.
I love you, baby. Did I tell you that sometime in the last 24 hours?
Sure, why not, money's the sex of the 80's. I never had it like you when I was growing up, baby, it wasn't the upper east side.
You're so naive Bud, you don't even know. Your dad took care of you. I might've been rich when I was a kid...but my father lost all his money...in the seventies, in the stock market, at the track. He was a lousy gambler...
...that changes all my plans, I thought you were loaded...
So did I, till I hit 19 and found I had all the royal habits and no throne. Mom got by but I had to go to work just like you. Only the skills I had were shopping and making friends. So...that's why I do what I do, what makes you tick, Buddy?
I'm sorry. I was afraid something like this could happen.
Talk about being bent over the sink of life and being dry humped. I handed it to him on a silver platter. I told my father and those people...
Buddy, it's not your fault, and it's not your decision.
Don't cross Gordon. He'll crush you. You've worked hard to get where you are. If Gordon doesn't buy Bluestar someone else will; and who's to say they won't do the same thing.
Are you mad! Why are you doing this! We're so close, the town is going to be ours. Don't throw away your future Bud!
I can stay with the brokerage firm. And you're doing fine. We can survive without Gordon Gekko.
I'm not looking to just survive. I've been doing that all my life.
You really mean that? What'd he promise you? To take you public? I guess without Gordon's money and seal of approval, I'm not such a hot investment anymore. You're just the best money can buy, Darien...
You're not exactly pure Bud, you went after Gekko with the same vengeance you went after me. Look in the mirror before...
You may not believe this Bud but I really do care for you. I think we could've made a good team...but that's how it goes...
Hi.
Why?
How you doing Buddy?
Morning Buddy, you look happy.
Any better and I'd be guilty.
You were never that innocent sugarpie.
Bud! Where you been the last two days?
He had a heart attack, hon, but he's okay, he's at the hospital...
You got a look in your eye, Mr. Mannheim... You got something for the small fry...
Sleep with me and the secrets of the West are yours.
Now that's a crap company, sure you'll make money on the takeover rumor, but what's being created. Nothing. No substance behind it.
Mr. Mannheim, got a sure thing. Anacott Steel.
No such thing Bud - 'cept death and taxes. Not a good company anymore, no fundamentals. What's going on Bud? Do you know something? Remember there're no short cuts son, quick buck artists come and go with every bull market but the steady players make it through the bear markets. You're part of something here, Bud. The money you make for people creates science
You're right, Mr. Mannheim, but you gotta get to the big time first, then you can be a pillar and do good things.
Can't get a little bit pregnant, Bud.
You're on a roll kiddo. Enjoy it while it lasts -- 'cause it never does.
I thought this was an informal meeting. What's he doing here?
Frankly, Carl, I can't see giving much more. If you have any suggestions I'll be glad to listen.
There came into Egypt a Pharoah who did not know.
I beg your pardon. Is that a proverb?
Fine, if you don't want us, stay with the scum in present management--dedicated to running you and Bluestar into the ground.
What do you say we go get a suite at the Carlyle? Caviar? Champagne? Celebrate, just like the old times Sunshine.
Those days are over, Gordon. They were over a long time ago.
So what's the problem Sunshine? You look like Black Thursday. Bad case of puppy love?
It's not puppy love, Gordon. Anyway, Buddy and I are splitting up.
Sorry to hear that. I thought the kid had staying power.
It's over you, Gordon.
You told him about us?
I want to ask you a big favor, Gordon. Please drop the Bluestar deal.
Now tell me, why would I want to do that?
Because I don't want to see him hurt.
Don't worry Sunshine. Bud and I had a little talk. We came to an understanding. I want you to go back to him. Soothe him. Help keep his head straight. Okay?
I can't...and I won't.
Come on, we both like Buddy. But this bleeding heart puppy love act is over the top... It doesn't fit.
Maybe it does. Don't patronize me Gordon.
You and I are the same, Darien. We're smart enough not to buy into the oldest myth running: love... A fiction created by people who got nothing to keep them from jumping out of windows.
You're really twisted, Gordon. You're incapable of giving to anybody because deep down inside you there's a poverty that every last dollar in the world won't fill.
Yeah, Billy, who's your buyer?... No, not interested. Ollie, start calling a the institutions, start with Marx at Janson Mutual, then Reardon. Get me that California retirement money, baby! And we're on our way!
He respond to the offer? What? What the hell's Cromwell doing giving lecture tours when his company's losing 60 million a quarter? I guess he's giving lectures on how to lose money...if this guy opened a funeral parlor, no one would die, this turkey's totally brain dead...Well Christmas is over and business is business. Keep buying. Dilute the sonofabitch. Ollie I want every orifice
... just got 250,000 shares at 18 1/4 from Janson, think I'll pull twice that at 18 1/2 outta the California pensions. We got close to half a million shares in the bag.
Hey, the Terminator! Blow 'em away Ollie.
And, I'm pretty sure we got the Beezer Brothers out of Tulsa coming in with us and I'm working on the Silverberg boys in Canada.
Rarest pistol in the world, Larry, a .45 Luger. Only six were ever manufactured.
Congratulations but rarer still is your interest in Anacott Steel.
The same interest as yours Larry. Money. I thought it'd be a good investment for my kid...
You must be wearing a mask you're laughing so hard behind it Larry. Let's cut the "sir" crap. Correct me if I'm wrong, but when you took CNX Electronics, you laid off 8,000 workers, Jessmon Fruit about 6,000, that airline...
Considering you brought my mother into it, $71.50.
With all due respect, Mr. Gekko, what's to prevent you from doing the same thing?
Are you prepared to put that in writing?
Cards are on the table. What do you think?
We know what you're up to, Gekko, and let me tell you this from here, you suck eggs, mister, over my dead body you ain't gonna break up Bluestar.
Listen, you clowns, there's somebody else out there trying to buy your airline, if you want to be Pac-manned and gobbled by Atilla the Hun be my guest!
I saw the greatest movie with mark last night
With Mark?
He still likes you
Oh I don't give a shit the guy's a slob. He doesn't even know how to spell `lady' let alone treat me like one. You know the last time we went out he actually made me pay for a drink?
He did?
Yes, I'm sure. What I need is an older man, something with class, a little style. Someone who knows how to treat a lady.
Businessman?
Businessman!
Doctor? Lawyer? CHINA Lawyer, Doctor, I don't care.
Yeah, yeah, OK
Yeah
But?
But he still has something Mark hasn't.
What's that?
Well that's for me to know - but I did enjoy rubbing oil all over that big.
Anybody want another drink?
We need to talk. CHINA Yeah about what?
About what? About us.
Us is over. You had your chance you blew it.
Right. CHINA I need a taking care of, not `hey how bout a pizza after class babe'. I'm looking for something just a little more in a man. A little `je nes se qua'.
A little what? CHINA See. You don't even speak French.
I'm sorry I'm not that good at languages ok?
Yeah well why should I suffer for that?
Well if you're in such a rush darling, why don't you lead the way?
Oh Mark. It's ok. It's ok.
Weird and tiny huh?
Yes, it's always been one of my favorites too.
Hmm.
Would you like a closer look?
Yes, I guess you're right
Your books Master Loftmore
Thank you Jenkins
And your coff - excuse me, caffeine sir
Thank you
And uh, your nicotine sir
Thank you
Will you be wanting your wheels today sir?
Uh, not today Jenkins, I need the fresh air
We're all here, and ready sir!
Jenkins!
Jenkins. Can I get you some help?
Hello?
Hello, Mrs. Webster. Is China there?
No Jonathan.
No?
She went to a waxwork party
A party at a waxwork huh?
Can I give her a message?
Velcome to ve Vaxverk.
I hope you enjoyed your visit.
Uh yes, thank you. It was quite enjoyable.
Two of your friends left earlier MARK Uh huh.
They seemed, closing by much
Tony and China?
Haven't we been doing our homework.
Getting scared? Don't worry, they've probably just gone home.
What? Tony and China, together?
Wooo. Jealously rearing its ugly head.
Then why do you still like her?
Like her? I don't know if I ever liked her. It's just you want what you can't get.
No Mark. MARK Why not?
I don't know. I really like you and I think you're very attractive.
Come on.
No, no James, it's not like that. Tony and China, they're just friends.
That's not what you said last night.
Ok, so maybe I was a little over emotional.
You aren't sick! We've got to get back. What are you doing!
Listen Sarah, I think I know what's going on ok. I went to the waxwork today.I met this man.
Oh that explains everything.
You don't understand. I recognized his face now come on.
If my mother caught me up here she'd kill me.
Well?
Well, it all started when a friend and I
Sarah listen to me.
I can't believe she went out with that monster last night
Guys, if I'm going to play the hero at least give me a little room.
Safety in numbers man.
Anyone else not coming?
This time I really don't see anyone man.
Must be what we came for. The four stand slowly and enter through the doors, which close behind them. They begin walking around the WAXWORKS, which appear gruesome. The first they spy is of a high school student with a letter jacket on the verge of being hacked with an axe by and angry woodsman. They give each other looks of disgust and continue
Sir Wilfred, this is Sarah Brighton. This is Sir Wilfred.
No thank you sir we're fine.
So Mark, what's so urgent?
Well?
Well divide 18 into three
If you sold your soul to the devil, you'd never age either
Sell my soul?
Any student of Black Magic can do it. .most of these books will tell you how! SARAH So what happens when you've sold out?
You get yourself a regular job, as Satan's disciple.
Can this be stopped?
Darling? I hear you were having drinks with the butler the other night. Now you know that sort of thing leads to anarchy.
Mom.
One has to keep the distance between `them' and `us'
They're all human beings
Servants. Oh isn't it terrible darling, two more people have disappeared
Oh really? We're they `us'es' or `them's'?
Don't be facetious darling. Now drink your milk, you're late for college
Mom, when are you going to let me have some coffee in the morning?
When - you're a big boy. I mean you know it's bad for you
But mom, I NEED THE CAFFINE - BADLY
Stop saying things so loud!
Save it for the powder room babe, this man is in pain
You bet. We all can't be such modern people
Come on Mark MARK Ah hell, why not. I'll get the maid to write the essays
Looks a little spooky boys, you think we should do this?
Do you have a scarf?
Yes?
It's only two hours away.
I know that.
I'll come back all the time.
Of course you will.
That was very good.
Mom, I'm sorry. I wanted to tell you. But it never felt right.
Besides, Dad would have freaked.
No, he wouldn't.
I think playing in a band called "Bitch" might put a dent in the whole "perfect family" thing.
That's not true.
He loves you very much. He just--
Are you mad at me?
I miss you.
So much.
It got so bad your father almost had to put me away.
What do you mean?
I started seeing things.
Did you?
No. But once I heard...
What?
Someone crying. A girl. I thought I was crazy.
Who's idea was it?
I didn't want to come.
Then why did you?
Because he was worried about me.
Your husband?
Yes. I'm sure he's hoping you'll pack me full of prozac so he can live out his life in peace.
Do you really think so?
Why is he worried?
Fireball?
These are good.
She finished my solitaire game and turned on the radio...she likes rock and roll. Angry rock and roll.
How do you know it's a she?
I saw her in the water. Beside me. She was filling the bathtub.
What does she look like?
Pretty. She's a blond.
Do you have any idea who she is?
Um...I'd rather not say...just yet.
Fine.
What?
Try to communicate with her somehow.
You think that'll help?
Are you humoring me?
How?
What's happening to me?
Whether you imagined it or not, you actually saw and heard things that frightened you...that gave you reason for concern.
Yes, but...
Your friend saw them.
Isn't there something called group hysteria?
You think you influenced her?
Maybe. I don't know. I just know that when all this was happening, I felt, some part of me felt...alive. Like somebody needed me. And the more I reached out to, it, the fuller it became.
You're saying you willed these events to happen?
She said, "You know." That I know.
Do you?
No.
I felt...pain. That she'd been hurt by someone. This is great. I'm trying to intuit the emotions of a figment of my--
Have you been hurt?
Me? No. Well, in the accident I was injured, but...
You were in an accident?
What?
That he doesn't...see me, or, you know, that I'm...that's something's wrong...with me.
That can't feel good.
Of course. You must be so proud.
I am.
How're you holding up?
Norman was telling me the dream house is finally finished.
Almost.
I'm sorry?
Uh-huh. What can be?
For the Dupont Chair. I swear. I'm becoming the nosy old lady I used to run from at Amherst.
No. I'm just not sure what you mean.
There was just...some tension. You were upset. I remember being concerned.
At the party.
Toward the end. You remember?
Ohhh yes. No, no. Just a little, you know...We're fine.
Well, I'm glad. Pardon my intrusiveness, but we do have to stick together you know.
Who's that?
Yes?
Um...
I'm running late here. I just came back for my briefcase.
Right. Well, I wanted to stop by to welcome you to the uh, to the neighborhood. I'm Claire Spencer. From next door.
Well maybe your wife...
She isn't here.
When...when will she be back?
I don't know.
Oh-kay...
Who?
Give me that shit. Your wife.
Who are you?
It's Mrs...It's Claire...Spencer. From next door. Is everything--
You're the flower lady.
Um...yes.
I've seen you. From the window.
Hello?
He's so...it's too much...and I can't...I can't breath...
Who? Your husband?
What? What are you afraid of?
Tell me. Please.
Tell me. I can help you.
How? How can you help me? With your flowers and your perfect life...
That's not...It's not like that.
I've never even met you.
I know. And I'm sorry. I've been consumed with...my daughter left...for school.
This fence...it's so...
Oh God. He's back. I'm sorry. Please forget that I...I don't know what I'm saying. Please...
I wanted to apologize.
You do?
For scaring you like I did. When I thought about what that must have seemed like that day...
And then you weren't there.
Would you like some iced tea?
Your house is so beautiful.
Thank you.
No.
Of what? What were you so afraid of?
Love.
What?
Have you ever felt so completely consumed by a feeling for someone that you couldn't breathe? That the time together is so passionate and consuming that you felt physical pain when they would leave?
Um...sure.
You must think I'm pathetic.
No. No, I don't.
Mrs. Frank?
Yeah.
I'd like to talk to you about Madison.
You know where she is?
No, I don't.
What's your name?
Claire.
Just plain old coffee. None of that mocha nonsense.
You look a little old for a student.
I'm not. We...we met at a party.
Sounds about right. Never understood how a girl that wild got all A's. Sure didn't get it from me. They wanted to put her in a special school for the gifted when she was young. Maddie wouldn't hear about it.
She never mentioned her father.
Why are you here?
I don't know.
Full scholarships. Princeton too. She wanted to stay close.
They're calling me in to work.
Y'hear anything you'll let me know?
What was her major?
Wow.
This is...
He looked like one of the Monkees.
Anyway, Claire slept with him...
I didn't sleep with him.
...just so she could cut them off.
He was so pissed.
I came in from my room...
We were suite mates.
And there's this brilliant conductor in purple briefs with no bangs cursing his ass off in Finnish.
You should have heard her play.
Stop.
We both auditioned for the Philharmonic. One cello position open.
Do we have to?
And I kicked ass. My best stuff. Then I stood in the hallway and listened to her audition...and I cried.
She's making this up.
She got it. Turned it down.
How you holding up?
Good. I'm good.
You are?
Why does everyone find that so surprising?
Cause...your...only daughter just went away to school...who you were incredibly close with aaand I'd be tripping...
Okay, I'm a little tender.
Well good. So you're human.
And so far my day has consisted of taking pictures of my roses for the garden club.
What is it?
Kambucha mushroom tea...
Jody--
It soothes heart-ache and promotes psychic wellness. Sela suggested I bring--
You're discussing me with your psychic?
She's not a psychic. Just a very enlightened spirit.
Thanks, but I'm fine.
Oh my god. You bought it.
Yep.
It's niiice.
Beautiful thing, alimony. Lose a husband, get a car. Think it'll help me pick up dudes?
Absolutely.
Listen, I've gotta run. I just thought I'd stop by and see if you want to take the boat out, say Thursday morning?
You think he killed her?
Know what I think?
What?
Seance.
Jody, no...
Telling you...
...no...no...no...
Just bought this beautiful antique Ouija.
Someone's there.
What?
In the window. Norman's at work.
Wow. I'm losing it.
Sit down here.
Place your fingers on the planchette.
The planchette?
We wish to commune with the spirit of Mrs. Feur. What's her first name?
Nothing's happening.
Oh...
Mef? What's Mef?
I have to go.
Are you okay?
I think so
I'm sorry for leaving, but I mean, Jesus, Claire...
It's alright.
Does Norman know?
Jody, she's alive.
What?
Mrs. Feur. She's alive. I met her. She's really sweet.
Then what was it?
Nothing. It wasn't anything. I've been on edge lately. Maybe since the accident. And I'd prefer, I really would, to just--
Something was there. You saw it.
Did I?
Yes. Now I talked to Sela and there's a guy, this Pakistani guy down in Hartford...
Hartford?
And he's the real thing. Specializes in cases like this, like yours.
No. Jody, listen to me. You have to listen to me. This is not something that I can do right now. Whatever it was, it's gone. I need it to be gone now.
But Claire--
Okay. Okay.
Oh God...you knew.
I was down in Adamant...
Adamant?
I started to walk over...but he wasn't alone. A blond. I only caught a glimpse. She was young. I should have said something right away. But I didn't.
Why?
Partly because I didn't want to hurt you...but partly...partly because I was relieved.
Relieved?
By the time I finally got up the nerve to tell you, Stan called from the hospital and it was too late.
Too late? Jody, it was an accident.
I got there first. Stan covered up the pills and I had it out with Norman. He seemed desperate not to lose you. He promised to handle it. And we all let it drop away.
I'm a terrible friend.
How could I expect you to tell me something that I wouldn't even tell myself?
What are you going to do?
I don't know.
If she was dangerous before--
She could have hurt me if she wanted to.
You don't know that. If it's your belief that gives her form, then you've got to shut her out. Somehow you have to break the connection.
Jody, she tried to kill him.
I know.
I can't believe this is happening.
We need help. Please let me call the medium.
Alight, alright. Stay calm. You opened this door. There's got to be a way that you can close it.
Like what?
I have an idea. But, I mean, I'm just making this up...
But he acted like he'd never heard of it.
Did he say that?
Jody he was lying.
What if he was? Do you think he wanted to bring that up again just when you're trying to make a new start?
I guess not.
You've got a beautiful life. And even with this, it's always been clear that he loves you. I've come to think that's all that really matters.
I don't know...
Christ, that's twice in...When did they move in?
I think three...
What's their name?
She's awake.
When's she out of here?
Alright. I can't take the rejection. I'm going to class.
Don't.
Claire, I have to show up for the--
It's today?
Claire?
Whatcha reading?
Genetic repair mechanisms in eukaryotic organisms.
Excellent. Couple of Swedish sailor cells just gang divided a virginal cheerleader cell.
If you have to work...
How are you?
Fine.
It's okay if you're not.
I am, really.
It's just she's been the focus for a while.
Not the focus.
To tell you the truth...I'm excited.
You are...
You did a great job. She's a good kid.
It's just us now.
Tired?
Nope.
Wanna fool around?
Did you...
And we moved out here for the quiet.
Maybe we should just...
Tomorrow.
I'm finished at three. No. Squash with Stan.
After that.
Of what?
Of him I think.
Did she say that?
Honey, they're young. They're probably newlyweds.
I'm telling you. There was something in her voice...
Remember how we were?
Not like this. We were never like this. I want to go over there. After dinner, we can--
Why?
Claire, honey, we are not going to march next door and accuse our new neighbor of--
That's not what I'm sug--
...when tonight they'll probably be keeping us awake.
But what if something happens?
Claire...
I'd never be able to live with mysel--
Nothing's going to happen. Besides, I have to work tonight. The conference is in less than two weeks. I've got to stay focused on that for just a little longer. This is...
I know.
I just wish you could have heard her.
Look, I'll call Harvey Tomes in the Psych department, see what I can find out.
Norman, you have to look at this!
Mmnph.
Nothing. There was...I thought I saw something.
Hi.
Oh.
Unless you need me to come home...
Claire?
What are you doing here?
What do you mean? Some noises where?
In the house. I was scared.
Did you call the police?
No. Can you drive me home? I'll bring you back in the morning.
It was there. This angry music all by itself. And I heard whispering.
What kind of whispering?
I've got the conference next week. I want you to feel safe.
Think I may have cracked it.
I think so. Maybe.
You are so brilliant.
Yep.
Madame Curie, Jonas Salk, Norman Spencer...
Ohmigod. You'll never believe...I saw Schumway...
You're kidding.
He's here giving some arcane spiel for the physics department, so Bob Shine introduces us...
And he says...you'll fucking love this, he says, "Doctor Spencer, I am a great admirer of your work..."
Well, that's nice.
"...especially Spencer's Theorem..."
Oh, no...
"...of Perpetual Distances." Everybody's checking their shoelaces. Pins drop. "I'm afraid you've mistaken me," I say...
That's...
"...for my father."
I'm so sorry.
Didn't know he was dead, every stinking paper on the globe.
That's just mean. Oh. Jody wanted to know if I could get her some.
Did you tell her?
What? No. No.
You didn't?
Sorry. You understand.
Did you call about the Feurs?
Oh, right. Yes. Harvey says the guy's a sweetheart. Wouldn't hurt a fly.
Get down! He'll see.
What's going on, Claire?
He killed her.
What?
He did. She's in the picture. I went over to look and she's gone. The table was set for one.
And that means he murdered his wife? This is getting ridic--
Our house.
It's a flare.
A flare?
From the sun. It's a reflection on the glass.
It's her! I'm telling you. She whispered and turned on the music. She's trying to contact me!
Where is she then?
She could be out. She could be sick in bed for all we know.
See?
What am I looking at?
I didn't do that.
Who did? Mrs. Feur?
Maybe. Point is...not me.
Right. And why is she here? If he killed her, why doesn't she haunt him?
She was lonely, I talked to her. Norman, I know how it looks, but--
Claire, listen to me. I know you're under some strain. But there's no such thing as ghosts. They don't exist. Our neighbor did not kill his wife, and I...wait, why aren't you dressed?
Dressed?
Dinner. With Stan and his new girl.
When?
What do you mean? Claire, we talked about it. You didn't want Japanese, I said, Our first date since...
Oh.
...since Caitlin. You don't remember this?
Tonight?
When you do this, I swear...
...Don't get all...
...like it never even happened...
What are you doing?
Restaurant. Let them know we're running late.
You're not at the center.
I know I'm not at the center of the bridge.
There we go.
I don't need a shrink.
Harvey says he's amazing.
Norman...
Claire, she's been a huge part of your life for seventeen years. If you weren't thrown off balance by this, then something would be wrong.
I never said I wasn't upset. Of course I'm upset. I miss her terribly. But I know what I saw and what I heard...and it wasn't some "symptom" of something...
I never said...
Are you lonely?
What are you doing out here?
He killed her. I'm not crazy. He killed her and--
This is the Feur thing?
How do you know this?
We had a seance.
Who did?
Jody and I. And she was there, Norman, she was. It scared Jody so bad she had to leave.
How did you--
What?
Maybe you resent how busy I've been.
What are you...? No.
You know what I've got at stake with this paper. You know that. I can't help but think that you're doing this now to hurt me, or to sabotage me somehow.
Sabotage?
Ever since the accident I've been worried that you'd been unhappy, or...
The accident...?
But then you've been so much better...
Norman, this isn't about you. This is something that's happening to me. It's not to get even...and it's not some warped bid for attention. Some strange things are happening in our house, whether you believe in them or not...
Sweetheart--
Keep your voice down.
Maybe you're right. Maybe I'm losing my mind...
I'm sorry...
...I'm pulling up, Yuri. I'll see you for dinner. Sure you won't stay?
No, it's fine. I'm fine.
Do I have everything?
Yep.
What?
You know I am.
You were lost in the music...eyes closed...your chest heaving...
I felt you...looking through me...
We walked all night...
You don't remember?
You dropped a glass.
I...
A cheap wine glass from the caterers. You started crying. I tried to comfort you...
In the living room...
You shoved me away and ran out to the patio. I took you home.
But why? I can't understand how I could just completely--
It was maybe a week after the accident. We were moving. It was a hard time.
But I don't remember.
Sweetheart, it was over a year ago.
I may have seen her on campus.
Not personally.
No. I'm afraid to ask what this is about.
It's her. This is the woman who I've seen.
The...
I thought it was Mrs. Feur, but it's not...
Stop...
...I'm positive this time...
...Please stop...
It's Madison Fra--
I take it your not mad at me.
Ow!
What's the matter?
It's too rough.
I don't like this, this...
I think she's starting to suspect something.
Who?
Your wife...
"You know..."
I was there.
Claire--
I came to work in the garden and I saw you with her...in my house.
Oh God...
It was last year. We were having troubles.
So you fucked a student?!
That's not what I'm sayi--
Claire, please don't...
What did you think I would do? Jesus Christ! I gave up my life and my music...
I never asked you to quit!
THAT'S NOT TRUE! You wanted to quit! And then when you did, you hated me for it... so you gave it all to her.
Who?
Leave her out of this!
And then out of nowhere, some bright young woman found me attractive...
Stop...
...would do anything just to be around me. And I slipped. God help me, I slipped.
I tried to break it off!
You should have tried harder.
Claire...
She was damaged and unstable. The more I tried to distance myself, the more desperate she became. Finally, she showed up at the new house...
She did it.
We don't know that for sure.
We have to get out of here.
It's alright.
Can't you see, she's trying to kill us.
She's gone.
What?
She can't be here without me.
How can you be sure?
I don't know, but I am. She was there and then she was gone. I felt it.
The leaves...
Incredible. We should take a drive before they're gone. Spend the night at some cozy little bed and breakfast.
Look for antiques...
Yep. There's some great places nearby.
Adamant.
What?
Little village down seven. Supposed to be charming.
Huh.
Do you know it?
Don't think so.
What's that for?
Nothing.
I'm cooking you dinner.
You don't have to do that.
I know.
She's out there isn't she? She's in the lake.
Okay. Don't...you don't understand what this is.
Don't I, Norman? YOU KEPT THE FUCKING NECKLACE. Of a woman you killed!
I did NOT! I did not kill anyone. Jesus. Claire, listen to me. I walked in and she was lying there dead. I swear to you. On my life! She took pills and she killed herself in our house to destroy me! To destroy us! If I hadn't stopped by here before school, the painters would have--
I don't believe you.
Mmmuh...
Shhhh.
What?
:What, you're doing Darcy? Since when?
:No, I said, I hate what I'm doing to Darcy. Oh, boy, men are stupider, it's true.
:Would you stop it!
:Well, they are.
:What do you mean "They" are? Are you officially a woman now?
Many times over the past thirty years. Why he shows himself to me, I don't know but Lasher's not some mindless wraith.
Then what is he...?
Going away doesn't mean you leave Lasher behind. He was on Rowan's deck - and the plane... geography seems irrelevant now.
Thank you for this honor, my dear.
You've been shadowing the family for thirty years. It's only fitting you give one af us away.
I have seen him again. Last night.
Lasher will act, Rowan. Whatever it is he wants - he's waited three hundred years to have it. facing him alone... I don't like -
Are you alright...? You look pale.
There are two.
Two what...?
With his hands!
You've always said you felt goodness in them - that the witches brought you and Rowan together. Isn't that right...? They're reaching out to you, Rowan!
But it doesn't make sense. They - they used Lasher... they conspired with him.
Jesus I've got - to get to the ho--
How do you know about Rowan ...? I didn't --- Cemetery...?
With her family. Rowan's mother died yesterday.
I ask only that you stay here, long enough to be - educated. A few hours.
I - r saw him as a child. Lots of times... But no one else did.
A what...?
No scaredy-cats in the Talamasca, huh...?
There is a difference between sensing danger - and being afraid. what defines you in the landscape, Michael...? what anchors your life...? Your work...? Your creativity...?
Rowan.
Don't tell Rowan about this.
Michael, Rowan should -
What have the witches always asked of you...?
"Go back, Michael. Do what you can..."
on't know what else to do. Maybe I just don't belong in her life. well - I'm already out of her life.
Nothing was ever more false.
I'll probably be back in a week...but I can't spend Christmas in that house. you'll check on her - every day...?
Aaron - lieten to me... It's been Lasher - from the start!
What are you talk---
Rowan...
Rowan - I'm Beatrice Maytair. Your cousin. Deedee...you'r mother and I - we - we grew up together.
I hope Ryan explained that if you stay in this town, you're shackled with pushy relations for the rest of your life.
He made that quite clear, yes.
Aren't they gauche...? Those steel things are so - common.
You two sees like a perfect fit. Only two mounths...?
Mm-hmm. Seems & lot longer.
Always give the crovd a taste, darling. Now - Ryan said I'm supposed to make sure -
'The heir to the fortune must wear the Mayfair pendant an her wedding day.' We should all have to suffer such burdens.
Then you wear it.
I'm sure he's alright, Bea. They'll find him somewhere.
Down here. darling, we figure: If you're taking a trip to God knows where - might as well have one hell of a going-away party.
In certain cases, hell is the operative word.
You babbling that nonsense - now...? This is a wedding.
I'm not saying I believe it...but I heard it 'nough times to know somebody did. They made a deal with the devil. Y'know - "make us rich" - worship the number thirteen - the whole bit. And some stuff about 'bringing them all back through a door...'
Gifford Mayfair - I'll cook your tongue on a spit! witches!
E11ie - Diedre died at five o'clock this morning. Obviously, there are 1egal matters. Your discretion will be -
Hello...? Who is this...?
Who is this...?
Rowan Mayfair. Who's calling...?
I beg your par---
When did she die...?
Who is this...?
I don't have any aunts - and I've never heard of a 'Carlotta' - or, for that matter - a 'Diedre'! Just who -
My...mother...?
Yes. Listen carefully, Rowan. Have your attorney contact me at once. There are matters of immediate -
But my mother... Ellie said she died -
I under5tand. All the same
-Ellie said she died when I was BORN! She's been alive...? ALL THIS TIME...? Why have I been lied to when -
I had you sent away.
Who the hel1 -
It was quite warranted by the - situation. I realize this is a shock, but really, Rowan - you never even knew her. It's not as if you've suffered some great -
What's the matter with you...?! What kind of person are you...?!
A very tired one. I've been up all night - and I would .like to rest before the funeral. Have your lawyer -
When is the funeral...? I am coming to my mother's funeral!!
Out of the question Rowan, coming here will not change the -
You came. I'm your Aunt Carlotta, my dear.
I want to see my mother. Where is she...?
She was alive all these years... You NEVER let me know her. Who gave you that right...?!
A Mayfair it ever I saw one.
I might as well be Rowan Smith - or Jones! you cut me off from every -
I'm tired. I need to rest.
I don't want the -
Other properties as well - here and in Europe. And vest holdings - in sugar, oil, gold, electronics. Liquid funds over eighty million. tmpcssible to put a figure on it all. All yours now.
Eighty million doll --- ?
What is it...?
You can see well in the dark, Rowan.
Better than most, I suppose.
You kept her in this filth in restraints...?.
She didn't feel them
Antha...your grandmother...her life ended there, on the stones. Head split open like a melon.
Why are you doing this...? Handing out these horrors! Why...?!!
He's shown himself to you... on the deck. In the storm.
Lasher touched you and you loved it.
It wes a dream...!
Just like your mother - and all the others that felt him - and used his power - and went to hell with a smile!
Stop it!
Witches. Rowan. that is what we are.
And that is why I pushed your grandmother onto the stones - even as she had him inside her...
You're mad! Your mind is sick!
...and why I put thirty years between you and the beautiful monster. To kill the legacy! you are the sum of his desires -
You - are - a - murderer.
Did you like it...? Looking down at Graham and knowing what you could do...?
Mum... Oh Mum, God will surely strike us -
Go back, MICHAEL... Go Back
The door, Michael. find the key...
Michael... Do what you can.
Lasher - bring us through!
Parents say he - uh - fell -
- and he seemed okay. Just banged his -
FAST.
uh - then he - be just -
Massive subdural hamatoma. We have to evacuat it - right now.
I'll tell OR we're bringing -
You do not love Michael How can you love - if you lie...?
Lie...?
Yes, Michael. Harder--. More...
I am with you, my love. Like no other can ever be.
STOP!
The wasps were meant for Michael - but there's only so much you can control, isn't there? The great and powerful lasher - undone by a faulty ladder-.. Why would you hurt him...?! Answer me.
I 1ove you, Rowan. I've always loved you. I only wanted to be in your thoughts. To bring myself into your thoughts - so I could be as we are now.
YOU VIOLATED ME!!! ON MY WEDDING NIGHT!
Explain this to me --- violated...?
Made it...?
It is from love.
To love, you must be able to feel.
If I could feel like you feel...but I have only others' feelings - . . like breeres that blow through me. Things to be felt, yes --- but not nine to feel...
It you harm Michael, I will let my anger loose. And you will feel that. Do you understand...?
You're very clever, aren't you...?
I'm going to have a baby. Michael wants to name it after you - if it's a girl. Diedre Mayfair Curry. Pretty, huh...? Funny --- I never really thought I'd ever ---
There is no one here but the dead.
Go away! I don't want you here.
If that were true, I would not be here.
It's very dangerous to assume you know what a woman wants.
A girl...?
you crave what I might show you. What you can learn. What I can give you. So much more than Michael can.
What Michael gives me is stronger than anything you could ever inderstand.
But I could understand. I want to understand!
I LOVE him!
Do not tell me that!
I know that you're evil.
I only wanted to see as others do... feel as others do... ...but Marguerite could not help me. Nor Julien...
And now you expect me to stockpile corpses for you...?!
I've waited for you - the one whose science could match her powers... Do you know what it's like - to sense the majesty of something so sublime just beyond your reach...? to float in a dream that keeps a .promise half-hidden in its shadows.-.? I did not choose to be such as this! Suzanne brought me here. She called to me!
--- and I have heard you from the beginning... from it's very first beat.
I love Michael...
You mustn't hurt him. Mustn't - mustn't hurt..
Focus all your powers on me, Rowan until it is done. Only me...
Only you...
Go on. Rowan. Go on.
What is wrong...?
Wrong...? Science is not magic.
I do not understand...
You went into the cells --- and you changed them. How...?!
There was no thought. There was no act. That is not what I am.
I don't know what you are!!!
No!
Aaron was in the dream. A dream tilled with spirits. you killed him, didn't you...?
The portraits, Lasher. Why are the witches always before a door...? Tell me, Lasher. Now!
Oh god...
Rowan and I will be together now. My time has come. Your time is gone.
Put - him - down! His - his heart...
Let me go... Michaelllllll...
ENOUGH! He is dead. You are here for me now. Michael is gone!
I'll destroy you. I swear it! If you don't kill me, I'll find a -
I am your son. I would not wound you. I could not - ever.
Harder...
Rowan...
Harder...
Like this... LIKE THIS...?
Yessss...
They like you ------- kids.
I've read the stories - and seen the news coverage.
I don't remember you at all- You - you saved my life- Bizarre thing to say, isn't it...?
I'm glad you're around to say it.
My jury's still out on that,
Do they keep everything 'out' ...?
What do you see...?
Just one. The bar's closed.
The one time I want it to work...
You know - doors and keyholes are common signposts in out-of-body -
You're not gonna give me the textbook analysia, are you doctor...? My vision was just the chemical reaction of an oxygen-starved brain - and nobody -
Harder...
Rowan...
HARDER!
Like this...? LIKE THIS...?!
you're very --- different.
What else did you see- Michael...?
My uncle. Graham. He and my Aunt, Ellie raised me. He - he - had a stroke- Just before Ellie died - of cancer. Last year.
It's unbelievable that you can do that.
My mother and I used to take long walks and make up stories about the houses and the people who lived inside. The Queen's house-. the Gangster's house-. the clown's house- Like that.
And whose houses do you design...?
Oh. The Green underwater Ghost's... The Man With The Eyes In His Hands...
I was born, in New Orleans, too-
Really...? Your family there...?
Too much... too fast...?
He's very pleased with your response to the surroundings.
you touched him --- and saw him...? What was he doinging. Kinky...?
You look very deep when you do that. It's interesting. We're Complete opposites- I'd never just sit and wait for insparation. I'd skip my turn and swap some letters.
Y-U-H-E-E-Y-A-H. Yu-hee-yah...? No way, busters use it in a sentence.
Why don't you let at do that...?
Just sit there and soak up the vitamin D.
Doctor's orders- - -?
Far from it, Michael... Don't put me up there.
All I meant was -
Christ, Michael - what the hell are we doing...? We don't even know -
Is this the part where you try and talk yourself out of how good this is...?
I'm serious. You don't -
Let's see... Next you tell me all the terrible things about you - and prove that we're doomed to fail - right...? you hate kittens and puppies, you've drivin all your lovers to suicide --and those mysterious deaths at the hospital were really -
Stop it.
Seems more like a year than a month.
I called Dr. Styles at the Neurological Institute In L.A., remember...? He said he'd see you. He was intrigned.
God knows, I'm intriguing.
Michael, do you want to wear those for the rest of your life...?

We're quite a pair, you and I.
Hello...?
Michael! Jesus I've been trying -
Rowan...?
Listen. Last night - oh Christ, this'1l take forever to explain. God, Michael...
Michael - I have to go - to New Orleans. I'll - I'll call yati when I -
Go to LAX and get on a flight to New Orleans. Go to the Ponchartrain Hotel and wait for me. I'll call you there.
Wait a minute. Rowan - what is going on...?
You know...?
She - she said I - I was a ---
It could've been a tornado - or a - a hurricane. Maybe -
Michael - I saw him! Twice! Carlotta said I --- killed Graham - with - with my anger.
Ro - you can't really believe that. Nobody can murder someone with their feelings. I mean --- that's CRAZY.
C'mon. Let's go to the ho---
Even if it's all true - that doesn't make you a witch! It's 1992, Rowan!
Stop looking at me like that! I'm not some siren chanting to the moon. And my life is not a cosmic whim! I am in charge of my life - - and I want to stay. Everything that was taken from me is here, Michael. All these years, she was there without me. Helpless. I should have been here.
Rowan... Think of what's in that book. Think of last night!
Do you love me, Michael...?
Yes. I love you. Very much.
It'd take mounths... and cost a fortune.
What about your work back home...?
I'll bet she had a wonderful smile.
You sure...?
Everyone - this is Michael curry.
Hello..
I'm wondering why the hell he hasn't shown up.
He can't hurt us, Michael. It's us - our love. He can't find a crack in it. He can't find a way in.
Maybe he's just - waiting...
Ro, how long have we known each other.
I don't think of us that way - ever.
Either do I. I love you, Ro. You know that. You're a total mystery to me - but I love YOU.
You're a ve-ry bad witch, you know that...?
Smoking is bad for your heart, Michael.
You're just afraid I'll drop dead before I finish the damn house.
I took off my gloves today - with Aaron - - and it was okay.
That's GREAT!
Aren't we supposed to love somebody for their moral rectitude or their courage or their beneficence -
Their what...?
Wanna snack...?
Hey - you're bleeding.
You look a little green.
Mm-hmmm...
Maybe the shrimp you bad last night.
Gee - look at that. I didn't know alligators came this far up on shore
Nobody makes a car like them Nasis...
Did you see the old man on the ---
No - I didn't kill him. Would you rather I'd let them kill us - after they'd raped me...?
No. This is unreal...
It's not some fairytale in an old book. Michael - look at me. I didn't choose this, Michael. This is who I am. I love you.
Fall in New Orleans... This whole town is waterlogged! The matches, the wood, my clothes, my skin.
That's cause we're below sea level.
ROWAN we're below sea level. I've spent time there myself.
You did that, didn't you...?
Remember the first time we made love - and then ---
Michael - what made you fall in love with me...?
Your beneficence.
You alright...?
Is he - is he gonna die...?
Michael - why would he want to hurt Stu...?
If it's a boy --- Taylor.
A bit much. Lucas.
Nah - I had a shmuck of an uncle named Lucas. Grayson.
When aid you get home last night...?
What were you talking about...?
Dovetails. Gotta be a hundred years old.
Something's wrong with you.
Hi.
Hi. You - you wanna get some breakfast...? Maybe see a movie...?
I - I... I can't, Michael. There's stuff --- at the clinic -
You've gone away from me, Ro... Someplace I don't know how to get to.
I can't.
That's not good enough. Why not...?!
I've never asked you to explain yourself - because you used to let me inside! But I'm on the outside now... you put me there!
Michael - please - just. a little longer. Don't leave.
Why bother to ask, Ro...? Why don't you just make me stay,..?
Stop it!
How 'bout a backward hex with a three-quarter twist...?
You could kill me - right now, couldn't you...? couldn't you...?! Tell me the truth --- is it Lasher...? Answer me!!
Michael - I'm sorry... Just give me -
Lasher... Where --- where is ---
sooner Or later you're gonna run out of things to change. You always do.
Go home, Stu I'll call you.
Bullshit! Let me in! Mikey - there are people who can help figure this ont.
On which planet...?
You can't just -
Well, Normie - you won't have to worry about this one being finished for a lonnnnng time. How are the hands...?
'Leave bees be - and the bees be nice.' Didn't your father ever teach you that...?
Wow...
You okay...?
I'm getting --- left behind.
Left behind...? This about Rowan...?
A few hours and I'll be wasting away in Margaritaville. Oh, sweet decadance.
Rowan Mayfair.
Sut McKinley. Marry me.
I thought you were almost engaged, Stu...?
You really love this guy...?
He's got great hands.
Hey - I love gloves- I look really great in gloves.
I thought it was 'whistle while you work.
Is that a crack about our singing...?
Mikey - pregnant women get crazy you know that. I mean - hell, they're all crazy anyway - right...?
We'd better get to work on the papers.
Papers...?
Standard for a Mayfair marriage. Rowan - there is a codicil concerning the Mayfair assets. They must be... aahhh... held separate from the other party... Michael that is it's in the will - for centuries. Tradition enjoins, Rowan. of course, future earnings from your practice will not fall into -
That's new territory for us...but yes, we can look into that. Explore shelter possibilities, funding bodies. we could -
No tax shelters. No funding. I want to fund the clinic - exclusively. The Diedre Mayfair Research Clinic. I'd like to find an existing building and move in immediately - while we draw up plans for new construction.
That would mean liquidating sizable amounts of cash.
Which do you think is her best shot...
The one on the left - definitely...
I've got a tenant coming over later - can I take the afternoon off?
That's not technically accurate - SIMPSONS murders weren't sexually motivated.
You know that circulation is down for three months in a row.
I heard something like that
OH MY GAWD!
I'm sorry - I didn't think
I thought you were someone else
I thought someone was following me - I - er - I just needed my computer and some things...Listen, I'd like to work from home for a few weeks - is that OK?
Sounds good - thank you
You see, I am writing this article for CHIC MAGAZINE
CHIC MAGAZINE?
When could I look round?
That's very kind of you MR GRIFFITHS...?
BRIAN...
Its cramped in here isn't it BRIAN
Yes it is...
Tell me BRIAN, what would happen if the client lost the key?
Then we would have to call in our locksmith to break the lock
So there is only one key...
That's right...
And it can't be forged?
Yes, I'm sure you could - but I can't risk you loosing your job
No -it's no problem - I do it all the time
All the time?
No - not all the time - I mean
Hello MRS STECKLER - we haven't seen you for a long time
I shouldn't say this - but you really remind me of someone I know
Oh really - you must remember me from when I was a regular customer.
I wasn't a manager here then MRS STECKLER - don't you remember?
This must be one of the old keys -
It doesn't mention 'females only'
Oh - Tell me ELLEN, I can call you ELLEN?
Sure...
I lost the touch
Do you take sugar?
What are you doing?
I'm sorry?
What's with all the locks - and hammering
My names isn't ANGELA...
Yes - I'm sorry ELLEN...
If you want any - there's some left in the kitchen
Sugar?
So what do you do?
I'm a dentist
Oh, about six years since I graduated
And how many people have you killed?
I don't know
You don't know?
No - the police say I've killed fourteen - but I've not - I've killed many more. It amazes me how they just haven't found the bodies. What is society coming to when people just don't get missed. I agree, some of them are well hidden - I probably couldn't even show you where I put them - one girl, number eight I think
Where do you kill them...
Oh anywhere - whenever I needed to - Do you know how easy it is to take them? You just pick up a hiker, or someone off the streets - they believe so easily you know, 'Look, I have something to show you' I would say - and that would be it. One girl, I think her name is Debbie - she had broken
my car I stopped working from my car. She could have stopped me you know - If she really wanted too. That is the difference between the confusion of humanity and the purity of the beast - If a dog attacked you - you could easily kill it without any damage to yourself - Why then do people get bitten by dogs - savaged?
I don't know
Because a dog will attack with a ferocity and force that we poses, but centuries of social contamination has run it out of us - that is what sets us aside from the purity of the beasts...Society is rotting - men who once were strong and kept everything working are getting soft - women are making them soft - by the time a pretty
Didn't DEBBIE deserve anymore?
No she didn't...
What did you do with her?
The press think that the WHITE ANGEL is a woman - why is that? Do you dress up LESLIE?
I don't want to talk about it -
OK, the press call you the WHITE ANGLE because you only kill girls wearing white - why white - white clothes, blonde hair...
I don't know...
Is 'their' colour an expression of their inner self? By that I mean, extroverts wear bright colours - so what are people who wear white?
I don't know...
Is white an expression of innocence? Do you crave innocence LESLIE?
Do you feel sorry for the girls you have killed
How long have you been watching me?
Tell me about your wife...
My wife My wife was the only one who really deserved it. LESLIE do this. LESLIE do that. LESLIE it's your fault... She used to tell me what to wear, where to go, what to do - she mothered me...
then why did you marry her -
What didn't you like about her?
You are the first person I have ever told any of this to. We are birds of a feather ELLEN...we're in the same league
I don't think so...This isn't a game you know...There aren't points or leagues. Sure I killed my husband - but I am no killer.
You've killed but you're not a killer
Tell me how it happened...
Why should I?
And how did it feel to be rid of him
My mother...? I never knew my real MOTHER - I was adopted
You think I killed my MOTHER don't you?
No...I didn't do it...I wish I had but I didn't. I was beaten to it. STEPHANIE became my mother.
STEPHANIE?
My sister - My ADOPTED SISTER -
Did STEPHANIE kill your MOTHER?
What was your relationship with STEPHANIE?
I want it to stop - it all to stop...
What?
I know this sounds insane ELLEN, but... Telling you all of this, writing the book... It feels good. Don't get me wrong - I feel like a weight is being lifted from my shoulders... When I tell you what I have done - I can't believe it is me...Yet I know it was. This is like a purging for me...
Psychiatrists would say that you are confronting your demons
What's wrong?
What's wrong?
What is it?
Yes...
You want me to wear white for you? You must be madder than I thought...
But ELLEN, I told you I have stopped...
Where are you going?
We've got nothing to talk about
I thought we had a relationship built on trust - and you just slap me in the face...
LESLIE? Is that good enough?
ELLEN, would you like a cup - there's plenty in the pot
First finish your tea...
Why did you let him in?
I don't like sugar
There isn't that much - you didn't even taste it - What's wrong - don't you like my tea?
It's not that - I just don't want any sugar
I haven't been using it recently LESLIE
whats wrong...what have I done wrong?
Nothing LESLIE - I just think we should wait...
I don't want either of us to come to any harm - please...
I loved you ELLEN - why did you do this?
Don't you want me now LESLIE
I'm sorry, I couldn't - when is she due?
Well, what do you think?
I don't know - it's your house ELLEN
Yes - but you live here too - If it were your house?
What's wrong with you?
I would prefer it if you kept away from LESLIE
What?
You don't own him you know - you can't tell me not to see him!
I want you out now
Leave!? Who the hell do you think you are?
What happened?
I had an accident - I fell down stairs...
Is LESLIE here?
No he had to - he's just - he's out...
It's been what, three years?
What's this all about?
What brings the rats out of the sewers?
I'm here about the so called disappearance of your husband - It's best if we let old bones lie. Know what I mean? I'm working on the WHITE ANGEL case now - and I've got to check all known murderers or suspected murderers for the last five years... And that means you...So where were you last THURSDAY afternoon around five...
It did give me a chance to meet you again ELLEN - It's all routine you understand...So where were you?
At home alone - where were you?
As it happens, I was at home alone - maybe we could solve each others problems?
I'd watch her mate - she has thing for men - they disappear near her.
I'm really very sorry - I was banking on this coming through, because it's only five minutes from my surgery...
Surgery? Are you a doctor?
Just put it in my room
I'm sorry, I didn't mean to shout...
You're a novelist - why didn't you tell me?
Her husband left her
I thought it was you - how are you?
I'm good - I was just making a delivery near here, so I thought I would see if you were about...
That's good
I'd really like it if you would come round some time - Then I could cook you a meal - what do you say...
Good - I've got to dash - Say that I said hello to ELLEN for me would you...
Dr STECKLER?
Yes...?
Dead?
Or was it, she wished he was dead - that's it - I believe he left the country with another woman - all rather sordid.
So she didn't mention anything more about it?
No - she isn't in any trouble is she?
Oh no sir - just making some enquiries...Just tell her that INSPECTOR TAYLOR called on you - she'll understand
I shouldn't really - I'm not your surgeon...
Sugar?
ANGEL...
Come on, bro. Spare yourself the humiliation, the degradation...
You and your pep talks.
Don't get me wrong. We can salivate over all the Christy Malones of our lives. Wishing we could devour them like melt-in-your-mouth filet mignon. But we're strictly hamburger guys. Ground chuck, sixty eight percent lean, is about the best we can hope for.
I genuinely think she wants me. I feel a vibe.
See? Did you see that?
The only chick more untouchable than Christy Malone is Miss April. "Hi, my name's Ginger. I love tofu burgers, rainy nights, and riding bareback. My biggest turn-off is cell phones during sex." Here's a tip: set it on VIBRATE, honey, and don't be stingy with the lube. Don't knock it till you tried it.
Were you always this sick?
Someday, I'll find out.
I defy your hamburger theory of life, and all of the unfulfilled hopes and dreams it represents.
That's crazy talk.
Don't do it, Ted. Don't do it.
Think about it...Long tunnel, bright lights, it's full of vaginal symbolism.
Poor Freud, turning in his grave.
Seriously, it's like we're being reborn. We really could reinvent ourselves here, just like you said. Nobody knows about your massive humiliation.
Nobody knows about your mental retardation.
Nobody knows you barfed during junior high school graduation.
Nobody knows about your constant masturbation.
What are the odds of there being ANOTHER Ted Nelson on our flight?
Who the hell was your father?
...A bouncer? Are you serious?
This is the life, baby. We get ourselves some tail and we're talking SPRING BREAK!
Cut it out, before you break something!
Don't you know anything about limo etiquette? Everything in here is included for our pleasure.
Wait a second, I thought we were hamburger guys.
I can't believe that's your mother. We're talking babe-a-licious chub fest, right here in the 501's.
This is like my every wet dream come true. I don't even care that you're here, too, bro.
I wonder how many of them will be at the orgy tonight?
This isn't some 80's porno film, you dip shit. There are no wild sex orgies.
Oh. Well. Maybe not yet.
You kiss your mother with that mouth?
So far away? In Xenia?
Check this out. Hurry!
Hurry.
What is it now?
Don't tell me. Another vision of incomparable beauty?
I get it now. You and me. We're dead.
Dead?
Our plane crashed. In the Grand Canyon. A big fiery explosion. We never made it to L.A. They needed dental records to identify us. And this place. This. Actually. Is. Heaven.
Then there must be a whole room, made completely of chocolate.
Don't be such a pansy. All of this is YOURS.
It's a lot to digest. Imagine how you'd feel.
I feel like I'm entering a forbidden tomb...
Oh, how inappropriate is that!
Take a whiff of heaven.
How would you like it if I did that to your mother's panties?
I'd call you a sick, twisted fuck. But this is different. She wasn't your mother mother--
A couple of boys fighting over a pair of red silk panties is nothing compared to what he's seen.
You're late, bro!
Sorry. Ginger got a little, you know, enthusiastic.
You'll never believe who's in there.
I feel like I've just been hit by a Mack truck.
I thought I loved her.
Hell yes, all hundred and seventeen of 'em!
No, leave one. Somebody's grandmother might want one.
And while you're at it, I'll take ten dozen of those puppies with the springy heads.
Get them together.
Holy stinkers, what were you thinking?
We wanted to challenge the notions of classic beauty. We wanted to showcase women throughout the world.
You got everything you ever wanted.
Naked girls, wild sex, video games. No wonder it's called "Heaven."
Never say never.
Every one of these women thinks she should be the next Angel of the Month. It's your job, Ted, to decide which of them is right.
Let me get this straight...
If it isn't straight by now, son, you probably should see a doctor.
These are real, live women?
We don't generally feature blow-up dolls in our magazine. But hey, if you think there's a market for it.
What gives, Don Corleone?
We reinvented ourselves.
New Hushpuppies don't make a new man.
You've obviously never had your dogs nestled in thousand dollar Italian loafers.
That explains the emptiness that haunts me.
Not bad for a hack. He has a future in yellow journalism.
Wouldn't it be awesome if we were about to say the exact same thing?
From your lips, to God's ears.
You go first.
Ladies first. I insist.
Well. The prom's coming up.
Yeah?
And I was wondering.
Yeah?
Teddy? Would you please please please take me to the prom?
Ted, have you lost your mind?
You like me. I like you. I guess it's pretty obvious to everyone.
I don't LIKE you. We're JUST FRIENDS.
But that smile.
Oh, Ted, DUH. I smile at everyone since I got my braces off.
You really don't get it, do you? I am genetically programmed to desire a big, buff, manly man who can defend and provide for me and my yet to be conceived offspring! It's, like, a caveman thing!
So that's a maybe?
Great jacket, Teddy Bear.
Yeah? You like?
Hi, Teddy Bear.
Christy? You want to be in "Heaven?"
I thought I'd be nervous, but you sure know how to make a girl feel relaxed, Teddy Bear.
I do? I mean, yeah, I do.
I have to admit, I am so totally turned on. We should do it. Now.
Do it?
I remember the first time you walked into Mrs. Temple's class in 2nd grade. Blue gingham dress. Blond ponytail.
Which you pulled, hard!
Remember dress up day? You and Charlie lifting skirts during recess.
I miss those days, when schoolyard sexual harassment was without consequence.
Well?
You have changed since second grade.
I mean, what do you think?
You expect me to think at a time like this? There isn't a drop of blood in my brain.
I was always too shy to admit how much I liked you.
Come on, I was hamburger. You were porterhouse.
God, you are so hot.
We have a truckload of strawberries arriving on Tuesday morning.
We can't accept it. It's much too expensive. Right, dear?
Sweetheart, what is it?
I always wanted Craftsman tools. He even got me the limited edition Buckeye colors.
Ted, we put a lot of love in our business.
We wanted you and Jimmy to have it someday. Something real and honest.
You have to understand. This was a big shock, for all of us. One minute you're our little boy, of whom we could not be more proud. The next minute you're the owner of this whole pornographic empire.
But that doesn't make you the boss of everything, son.
We're not ashamed of you, Teddy. We don't approve of the magazine or the models or the so-called "flesh parties" you attend. But we can get past all that.
We miss you. We miss our son.
We think you should give up the magazine. Sell it. Let someone else run it. Whatever it takes.
We understand your disappointment, Teddy. Christy is a pretty, sexy, provocative, voluptuous... We...uh...we understand your disappointment.
I remember spring break of my senior year. Seems like a lifetime ago.
Dad, please.
Grandpa was so strong back then. Working from the crack of dawn. So proud of his peaches.
Remember how you struggled through that whole facts of life talk and then found out I knew more than you?
You're way ahead of me again?
It was the year of the rhizopus rot. Grandpa almost lost the farm. You sacrificed your dream to go to the prize hog festival. And in the end you saved the peaches and you didn't have to slaughter your sow.
The lesson being?
Sometimes you have to do stuff you don't want to do. It's all part of growing up. And it usually works out peachy in the end.
You guys are my parents.
Of course we are.
Son.
Well, why should I?
They had a rough life. Your father was a bouncer. Your mother was, well, a two-bit stripper. There was no place for a baby.
I guess.
They did do one great thing. They gave us our boy.
Yeah.
Be a sport. How bad could spring break in Los Angeles be?
I guess we could go to Disneyland or something.
Think of it as a rite of passage to manhood.
Like one of those "National Geographic" specials with the topless chicks?
Whatever helps you cope.
I guess it's better than having tribal patterns carved in my face.
There ya go. Always remember, focus on the peach...
Ted, it's your dad. I have a question for you. I don't know how to put it tactfully. You know I'm lousy with words.
Just say it, Dad.
I know they were simple people, but did this trip help your college fund at all?
Dad, let's just say I can buy anything I want in the whole bookstore. Including the bookstore.
Finally, some gratitude.
But those are our dreams, son. We have to make them come true.
Sorry I--
It's okay. You need me?
I paid off the mortgage! I ordered that Winnebago you always wanted! Now you're ashamed of me?
THAT is your dream, not mine. My dream is so far beyond anything YOU PEOPLE could even imagine.
Watch your tone, mister.
Shut your pie hole, Jimmy.
I-I don't have the keys.
You do know how to drive?
I don't have much experience with a...uh...stick.
Now release the brake. And slide the stick into first gear.
The first time can be awkward. You just have to get on and try again.
I don't even know if I should be doing this. It's a very expensive car.
It's your car. These are all your cars.
Some of them have to be automatics.
I'm Ted, by the way. I think I forgot to say that.
I know. I'm Ginger. Miss April.
The one with the horses.
That's me.
Hey, Ted. Wanna go shopping?
Shopping, really? I should tell my friend.
Don't worry. He found the chocolate room.
Who exactly ARE you?
What do you mean? I'm Ted Nelson.
Or do you have a taste for the good life, Ted? It's in your blood.
I always knew there was more. I felt it.
Teddy? I was thinking.
Hmmm?
After graduation...maybe we could go away together?
Teddy, I thought we were having a moment here.
Ted! Do something!
What do you want me to do?
This is humiliating. We're being ejected from a prom!
Well?
Oh, sweetheart! We wish we could be right there to hug the living daylights out of you!
But if you're watching this, then it means we bit the dust.
But don't worry...we'll be in heaven. The REAL heaven, I mean. Not that heaven is an actual place, but more like a state of being. Or not being. Who knows. Maybe we know now.
But we did want you. It's just that you don't always get to keep what you want. We knew you needed a real mom and dad.
Can you believe that was me?
Before we knew it, we created the most popular men's magazine in the entire nation. The rest is history.
So here we are. Dead. But we never want you to want for anything. That is, we want you to have everything.
You're on the next plane home.
No problem, consider it done. I had this idea of shooting on location. Outdoors, you know? Maybe at some famous Xenia landmarks. You think that would be a problem?
It's a little more serious than that, Bill. The stockholders have requested a meeting. They want our guarantee that this will never happen again. Some of them are even calling for Ted's resignation.
Your parents never wanted to interfere with your life, Ted. They knew your Mom and Dad loved you very much. They knew they did the right thing. But that doesn't mean they didn't watch you and miss you, from afar.
You mean they knew who I was?
I wondered about them, for so many years. I wondered if I looked like them, acted like them. I wondered why they gave me up.
Giving you up was the most unselfish thing they ever did. When they founded "Heaven," they wished they could take you back but it was too late. All they could do was build the empire, knowing that someday it would all be yours.
My legacy.
Your parents would be crushed to think you weren't happy with it.
They're not my parents, Helen. My parents are back in Xenia and I hurt them very much.
I understand.
And the girl I love, she hates "Heaven." If I keep it, she'll never respect me.
How are the hometown folks treating you, back in Xenia?
Well, Jay. They've been exceptionally supportive.
I'm no stranger to the notion of philanthropy. Andrew Carnegie has long been one of my idols.
Matter of fact, Jay, my uncle and I are planning to rethink the magazine. To expand the traditional western notions of "beauty."
I see, so you'd be open to little ladies from Pasadena, who want to show you their knickers?
Mom, Dad. Meatloaf has come to represent all that Ted hates about his mediocre life and the world we live in. He's what you'd call clinically bummed.
James, what are you doing here?
You can call me Jimmy again. Sheryl Petersen said James sounds too pretentious.
Sheryl Petersen is, what, nine years old, what does she know?
She knew exactly where you were staying, which you neglected to tell me, your own brother.
Impressive. This is bigger than our whole house.
Most places are, Jimmy.
They say money can't buy happiness but this is a reasonably good facsimile.
So, what brings you here at his hour?
My new bike.
Very funny.
I came to ask permission to take custody of your room.
My room?
Better view, more spacious, new carpet. It's a no-brainer.
It's not up to me.
Mom and Dad said it's yours. They seem to think you're coming home.
If you could just sign right there.
You want it in writing?
That's it? I mean, you don't want to order room service or anything? We could play games and watch movies and stuff.
Are you kidding? Mom and Dad discover I'm gone and I'll be doing hard time.
Are they okay?
Aside from the fact that Mom's eyes are nearly swollen shut from crying and Dad spends all his time under the car trying to fix stuff that isn't broken, things couldn't be better.
I miss them, too.
You can't come back. That is, you can, but your things will be in the room you currently think of as mine.
You're a peach.
He was my Grandfather, too.
I meant biologically.
That's a crappy thing to say.
But just for the record, my Mom is a kick-ass schoolteacher and my Dad is the best damn auto mechanic this side of the Himalayas. You seem to have forgotten they opened Nelson's FAMILY Market so they could build something permanent, a legacy, for us. Their kids.
I didn't forget.
Great.
So, William Randolph. Your last big scoop contrasted the popularity of Rice Crispie Treats and chocolate Snickerdoodles at the annual bake sale.
That's just one example. My reporting has made a difference.
Let me guess: retail sales of little chocolate sprinkles have gone through the roof!
Is it true? Is ignorance bliss?
Don't even tell me you're hot for Miss Titty Pom Poms over there.
Christy's a very talented journalist. I see a Pulitzer in her future.
I didn't know they gave them for Best Lip Gloss Retention During a Blow Job.
Me-ow.
Go ahead. Ask her to the prom. Get it over with.
I have absolutely no intention--
I tried to warn you, William Randolph. She's got stiletto heels hidden in those Keds.
But you triple-dog-dared me.
A few billion bucks and suddenly he's Cro-Magnon Man of the Year.
What is it, William Randolph? Your balls need scratching?
Your article sucked.
In what sense?
In the sense that there is no "hidden agenda" behind a bake sale that raised five hundred dollars for seeing eye dogs.
Ah ha! It was so well hidden, you didn't even know it was there.
Come on, Julie. Don't screw up. You have some real talent.
Just because someone died and made you king of the publishing world doesn't mean you're even one ounce smarter than you were a week ago.
I'm trying to help.
I'm still better than you. Nothing changed except the decimal point in your savings account.
What do you want from me? I'm trying to be fair. But I can't keep you on staff if you turn every PTA meeting into an Agent Orange cover up.
Then I'll write about YOU.
Me?
"Local boy inherits more money than god." Call me crazy, but I smell human interest.
I have to admit, I always felt... different.
Different how? Different like a dwarf at a basketball game? Or different like a lesbian in pumps?
I don't get the distinction.
Could everybody else tell you were different, or were you the only one who knew?
I felt limited. I felt confined. I felt like I was suffocating.
I see. So more like a tight rope walker who secretly wants to be a trapeze artist.
I guess.
She said peanuts, you cretin.
Don't write that part.
Is this an gritty expos or a candy ass press release?
Write what you want. Just try not to make it so obvious that you're crazy about me.
Life must be peachy on Planet Ted.
Funny you should say "peachy."
I did my homework. Your grandfather was a peach farmer.
My adoptive grandfather. Who knows what my biological grandfather did.
Considering this is your first time on a private jet, on which you are interviewing the world's most eligible bachelor, you are extremely cavalier.
I bet there are lots and lots of mirrors on Planet Ted.
See? You're impertinent, rude, sarcastic.
And this is not my first time on a private jet, so quit acting like I'm Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm.
Well? What do you think of her?
You're so twitterpated you don't even see the miner's hat and the pickax.
Charlie's right. Jealousy is so unattractive.
Second only to unbridled, narcissistic conceit.
Why can't you be nice to me?
Wow...you clean up nice.
Where are we going?
I can't believe your dad built this for you.
He didn't. He had it built.
Whatever.
Not "whatever." It's two different things.
He cared enough to want you to have it.
He phoned it in.
I see.
I doubt it.
Now it makes sense, the whole neo Bohemian, down with hypocrisy, fight the power crap. You're a poor little rich girl.
The ozone must be fully depleted on Planet Ted.
You think my dad would have been like that if I knew him? You think he would have bought me a stadium, instead of teaching me how to play ball?
Your dad taught you everything.
I mean my father.
A father is nothing but sperm, Ted. It takes a real man to be a dad.
It's all so complicated.
It's incredibly simple.
I feel like I'm being drawn and quartered. Like every part of me is being pushed and pulled and tugged in a different direction.
Eventually you'll let go.
And then what?
Then you'll see who's really holding on to you.
You're amazing.
I know.
Even when you infuriate me, I still want to kiss you.
But you never do.
Cut to the chase, William Randolph. Your audience is way ahead of you.
In a word: MERK. EXPOSED.
That's two words. And I'm out of the "exposed" business, remember? I need to graduate. Besides, Merk's a boy scout.
There's gotta be something. We have to dig deeper.
You forget, I dislike YOU at least as much as him.
A good journalist can take lemons and make lemonade. I'm honing my craft.
That's probably my office.
Well? Where the hell are you?
He's on the move?
I got an anonymous tip and an address in Cincinnati.
I don't know. This place seems pretty tame.
You expected whips, chains, Merk being cattle-prodded by some dominatrix in a leather hood?
At least it's not another 4-H meeting or a Big Brother barbecue.
Look at us. It's one o'clock in the morning, on a school night. We're in a smoky nightclub, hoping to catch our principal with some big city tart.
I'm trembling with excitement.
That has more to do with your proximity to me.
My desire betrays me, like goosebumps on my flesh.
I have a bit of a goosebump fetish. Not many people know that.
I figured you for more of a hairy armpit guy.
Shoes, if you want to know the truth. Shoes are my thing.
Wearing them? Or humping them?
My fantasy is a totally naked woman, wearing nothing but a Timex and suede clogs.
That's refreshingly deviant.
What about you?
I'm very aural.
Tell me more.
Sounds, voices, music, humming. All of it can turn me on, or off, like a switch.
I see.
I had a Portuguese boyfriend who could read the phone book and melt me.
A Portuguese boyfriend. Sounds very "Cosmo."
You live and learn. I realized the most important thing to me, above all, is trust.
Turned out to be a scoundrel, eh? I saw that one coming.
Do you trust me, Julie?
Not a chance.
Come on.
I want you to trust me.
Maybe someday.
Julie, I'll tell you something that is the god's honest truth. I've seen a lot of really beautiful girls. I mean a lot. But none of them make me feel like you do.
That's hard to believe.
I have to be honest with you, Ted. I really despise "The Girls of Xenia."
I know, their small town mentality can be maddening.
I mean your pictorial. It bothers me, profoundly.
You're telling me you don't get aroused by a roomful of naked breasts.
You've seen one naked breast, you've seem them all.
Which explains the continued success of "Heaven" for how many decades?
You're quick. I like that.
You think you're working with chimps here?
The thing is, I made a commitment. I said I'd do it and I have to keep my word.
Julie, wow. I was afraid you left. I was afraid I'd never see you again.
I'm not going anywhere, Ted. You're the one with the champagne wishes and caviar dreams.
And I thought maybe I'd take up boating. I've always wanted to be a "coxswain."
Very ambitious. I like that.
The thing is, I'll need a first mate.
Planet Ted. Five years from now. What's happening?
I know where you can find an excellent editor-in-chief.
Yellow pages?
They're playing our song. Dare I ask for this dance?
What is this? Does everybody know everything I'm about to say or do every freakin' minute of the day?
No cursing in this house, young man. Use the strong vocabulary God gave you.
That's part of growing up, honey.
What about Charlie? You boys could make it a little adventure.
I'm all right, Mom. I'm not in Siberia, you know.
Did you have a nice flight? Are they taking good care of you?
Yeah, I'm doing fine. I have so much to tell you. I don't even know where to begin.
Save it, honey. We want to hear every detail when you get back, but we don't want you to run up Mr. Zukerman's phone bill.
Well? Surprised?
What is all this? When are you coming home?
Just a few tokens of my affection. I'll be back soon, don't worry.
Everything is lovely, Ted, but much too expensive.
Oh, good lord. Are those Neptunes?
Only the best for my mother.
You promise you'll finish school?
You don't have to work another day in your lives.
Don't you get it? In one day I earn more interest than the store's entire annual revenue.
Oh. Goodness.
You're free. You can do anything you ever wanted to do!
Like what?
But who would run the store?
Everything I am is because of you. Can you ever forgive me?
I need your help. I'm really in deep shit.
I like you, Ted. You know that. I liked you before you were filthy rich.
Thanks, Principal Merkin.
I'll be blunt. I know you can take it.
Yes, sir. I'll brace myself.
Ted, you are the best editor this school paper ever had. You don't need to be pandering flesh. It's nonsense. It's beneath you.
You think I ought to just tell them thanks but no thanks? I don't want your silly billion dollar empire?
That's a good start, yes. A very good start.
Are you kidding? This magazine is my dream. It's every red-blooded, heterosexual male's dream.
I never figured you for a pimp.
Have you ever even looked at "Heaven?"
What kind of sick question is that? I'll be watching you, young man. Your money and power mean nothing here. Nothing.
With all due respect to Merk, he doesn't have to read my magazine. But he has no right to stop others. Ever hear of the First Amendment?
We cannot afford free speech if it excises the moral fiber of this community!
Honestly, Merk. It's like you were never seventeen and the head of a media empire.
Rules are rules.
Come on, it's our only senior prom.
You're crossing the line, Mr. Nelson.
A statue in front of city hall, dedicated to Principal Dick Merkin?
I'm warning you.
You kicked us off your turf, Merk. Don't rain on our parade.
Mr. Nelson, you disappoint me. First you break our school board rules. Then you break the law.
What law, Merk? Having fun? Letting down our hair on prom night?
Our state has a zero tolerance policy for underage drinking.
You called the cops on us?
Smashing! Welcome to the family, Ted. You are going to breathe some new life into this place. You are going to set the world on fire! You are going to...call me Uncle Billy? Please?
Uh, sure. Uncle Billy.
You do like girls, don't you?
Of course I like girls.
A lot? I mean, a whole lot?
As much as possible.
The parties are held in here when the weather dips below seventy. Which is seldom.
Ah, in other words, this is the apres-orgy salon?
Maybe she needs help, Ted. You should be a gentleman.
We don't allow TIPN, Ted.
There you are, Ted-baby. Everything all right?
You ready for your big coming out party? Everybody's dying to meet you.
Just a couple of finishing touches. My parents always said you never get a second chance to make a good first impression.
Truth is, I'm a little nervous.
YOU? Nervous? Why on earth should you be nervous?
All those people out there. It's a lot of pressure.
Huh! You laugh in the face of pressure!
I do?
You're the Sultan of Semen. The Monarch of Masturbation. The Merchant Prince of Lust. You. Ted. Are the King of Coitus.
Me? The King of Coitus?
The Supreme Sovereign of Sexuality.
Whoa. But...that's the thing... I've never even actually...
I told you you could do it.
I was like a different person tonight.
You were the new and improved you.
I would have been laughed right out of Xenia.
No one will be laughing at you now, Ted. You can take that to the bank.
It's really going to be strange going home in a couple of days.
You ARE home. But go ahead, finish school, do what you feel you need to do. In the meantime, I'll be your point person here on the magazine.
Really? You'd do that for me?
I've been very lazy for a long, long time.
You seem like you're anything but lazy, Uncle Billy.
I never finished school myself. Never had to. My brother built this empire from nothing but his wife's perky tits and a whole lot of gumption. He gave me a cushy job on a silver platter. I never struggled for a second.
My parents always say hard work builds character.
It's not like I didn't have ideas, I had plenty of ideas. But I never even shared them with your father. Never had the guts.
What kind of ideas?
Well...for one thing...I think it's despicable that we exclude so many women that only fit our western notion of "classic beauty."
You think we should be more open minded?
The world is a big, beautiful place. We can open new markets in Africa and Asia. Imagine the Dali Lhama reading our magazine.
In other words, our scope is too narrow.
At our press conference tomorrow, I think we should announce our plans to explore the world. Not just a few leggy 36D's, with blond hair upstairs and down.
Don't forget to tell them all your qualifications.
So far, so good. Some of them have real Angel potential.
My father must've been amazing.
I never saw anybody turn so many shades of red.
I can't wait to see the pictures.
Such enthusiasm. Have I told you lately how proud I am of you?
Seriously? I'm doing all right?
I owe it all to you. Without your help I'd be lost.
I wish I knew you years ago, when my brother was alive. I wish he never gave you up.
I'd love to, but I really need to crack the books. Final exams are coming up and I've been slacking.
You're right. I should work, too. Our first issue together is almost ready to print.
Thanks, Uncle Billy. Thanks for everything.
Yes?
I loved my brother. I stood by his wishes to let his son run the company. A son he never knew. A son that he and his wife gave away at birth. A son who was raised in a world quite different from our own. Nevertheless, I was there for the lad. I guided him as best I could. But he's only seventeen, with
What are you doing?
Thanks for teaching me an important lesson. What makes a family is love, not blood.
All is fair in "Heaven," Ted-baby.
That's right. And guess who's the new King of the Unemployment Line.
In a hurry, are we?
I was in the middle of a melodramatic exit. It wouldn't really make a statement if I tiptoed out the door...What are you selling?
Bad news.
People pay good money for that?
Oh no. No way. I've had all the bad news I can take for one day.
My parents? What do you mean?
I'm terrible at this. I blurt. I'm a blurter. Your parents...They ...well...they exist no further. Skinny-dipping. The Amazon. Piranhas. It wasn't pretty.
You've got the wrong guy. The closest my parents have been to the Amazon is the Brazilian pavilion at Epcot.
How quaint.
Are you familiar with "Heaven?"
I'm seventeen. I know it like the back of my hand.
So, did you set 'em all straight on the ugly facts of life?
Talk to me Artie.
Kelly Van Ryan...
... is accusing me of rape. Jimmy told me. Apparently I'm the last to know...
Sam... I... Sandra Van Ryan's been on the horn with every member of the school board all day long. She's pushing for suspension...
All I can tell you Sam, is hang in there. They clear you of this mess, you get reinstated, with back pay...
That's great. I'll just tell my creditors I'm not a rapist. No problem... Shit. I can't believe the board's going to act without even hearing my side of it.
How you doing, Artie?
Not that I'm going to be much good after last night...
Is that Sandra Van Ryan's kid?
Kelly.
She's going to wash your Jeep?
You look pretty.
Hey, I've got it, I may as well spend it, right? I've always wanted to live where I could dive for my dinner.
And where might that be?
I was thinking, Antigua, maybe.
I love Antigua. Maybe I'll come visit you.
How soon can we get something?
Merritt, Forensics.
The teeth doin' any talkin'?
Ray. Stop calling. I told you the dental records will take time...
What about the blood?
Could be hers. Types match. Could be a lot of other people's too...
Gator can't see what's in front of it for shit. They see out the sides. That one don't even know Walter's arm's in his mouth.
What if something distracts it and it snaps anyway?
You come all the way out here to watch Walter?
I was wondering if I could ask you a few questions.
About Suzie?
Actually, I was wondering if I might ask you about Ray Duquette.
Got sort of hung up on her, from what hear.
She still work there?
No. Not after that night. I don't know what happened. Maybe he caught her with some john... All I know is, the next morning the girl was gone and there was a dead boy... Indian kid named Davy. Used to live down the road there in a wrecked car. Him and Suzie were at the Glades that night. It was right after that, Ray
Wasn't enough Van Ryan had to destroy the people who invested here. He got to be old, he and his rich cronies would come down here, hunt and whore, act like assholes. One trip he showed up with this young girl he'd picked up somewhere, gotten her pregnant then dumped her in the swamp. That came with her.
And the child...
She had it, before she drank herself to death. Wasn't exactly a love child...
Suzie. Then you're not her grandmother...
So Suzie and Sandra Van Ryan were half- sisters.
You okay?
How are you, Kelly? Would you like to take a break for a minute?
I just want to get it over with. My mom's making me do this. I just want to forget it.
The next thing... his hand was in my shorts... you know, from behind. His fingers... his fingers...
Take your time.
They were in me. Both places... you know.
I understand.
He said something like, "Do you want it dirty7" or something. I tried to turn away, but he pushed me to the floor.
Was there penetration? Did he put himself inside you?
Yes. I said stop. I screamed. I mean that's how it sounded in my head. He hurt me...
That's okay, Kelly. You're doing fine. But I have to ask you something here. When you say it hurt. Was this the first time a man was inside you?
No. I've done it a couple of times, I mean with guys I dated. But this hurt... like, he was built... you know...
Did you try to fight him?
I... he had my wrists pinned behind me. I remember my hands were cold.'
Then what?
He kept saying, "Let it happen, let it happen." Then he just stopped.
You mean he withdrew...
Not at first. He was still inside but he wasn't moving or anything... He said we had this secret. And that now he'd be able to help me... because we were close... Something like that. I don't know. It's hard to remember, exactly.
Try, Kelly.
If old pictures interest you, come back some time, there's quite a collection down in the pagoda. I'll see you get a proper tour.
And when you turned her toward the door, where did you expect her to go, without a car?
Did you call anyone? Did you call her house to see if she got home? Did you call the Masons?
No.
Weren't you a little worried about her...?
Isn't that against the law, peeking into windows?
How long?
She didn't cone home last night. We found her car at the bus terminal, but nothing to suggest she bought a ticket.
Maybe she used another name.
I don't know what to say...
Kelly's file. Read it. You're going to find an angry, sexually confused girl who's made threats on her mother's life and a female lover she'd never identify.
I've got that two o'clock in town.
That would make it about the time of her old man's suicide. You don't think that could explain some erratic behavior?
It's our job, Gloria.
Same as him. They saw her come. They saw her go. They saw him follow.
We failed to mention the mower guy's a drunk, that he was after more beer and never really saw Kelly go into the house, so he can't say how long she was in there. Same with the kids. They saw her running down the street, but that's it. With no physical evidence, what do we have? Her word against his.
You're telling me you believe the guy?
You can go up to one of those trees and peel the bark. You know what you get? More bark. And more bark. There's no core. Tree's not good tar anything but sucking up water. And now they can't get rid of them. They've tried poisons. Nothing works. They don't die.
You remember that little girl walked out of our talk at Blue Bay?
The skinny brunette.
This is where she lives. She wants to talk. Beats the shit out of me why she would call me at all. I busted her once for possession. she wound up doing about six months at Camp Nine.
That's what they called it when I was in Juvenile. It's a pretty dismal place.
You saw the news today?
Think back, before the suit was filed, before the trial. Lombardo had an affair with Sandra, right? So why not tell us about the affair? I mean it could be a hell of a motive for Kelly to fabricate her charge in the first place.
Maybe Lombardo's attorney was saving the affair for the trial.
I thought of that. Then I said, come on, you're Lombardo. Your reputation is getting trashed. You want to stop the bleeding. You don't want to sit in jail for three months. Unless...
Unless what?
They chumped us, Gloria, right from the start.
Why? You ask me, Lombardo had it pretty good already, nice job in a beautiful setting, popular, an active social life. He's gonna put this all on the line for some dicey play like what you're describing...
So what about the girls? Suzie's poor, but why would Kelly have to steal from her own mother? Surely her father...
This one's got you working overtime, hasn't it?
I flat don't like the guy, Glory. He's dirty. And I'll tell you something else. You want to know how old man Lombardo lost his money? He was fucked out of it by old man Van Ryan, on a little item known as the Salt Creek Land Deal. It was after the war. Van Ryan set up a corporation to develop swamp land, got
Eliminate the competition.
Where'd you come up with this stuff, anyway?
Which she might have saved, if she hadn't set out to destroy the man's life.
Guess I kind of lost it there.
You could say that.
We all have...
It's starting, Gloria. This is how it begins...
I'm gonna take you back to the office. Will you put out a call on Suzie's car for me?
If you want company...
Two kids could've gotten into a fight, lost a couple of teeth.
Those are Suzie Toller's teeth.
Where's the body?
Her grandmother said she'd been threatening to run away. And I found the car at the Miami bus terminal.
Poor dumb Suzie, she never had a chance.
Will you do me one favor?
Ray, you heard him...
Stick with me on this Gloria. I need you...
And if the teeth aren't Suzie's? You'll give this up?
I'm tired, Ray. I'm going home.
Where's Lombardo?
He's leaving the country. And I don't give a shit.
The blood type on the rocks matches Suzie's.
That bothers you?
Yeah, maybe, a little.
You didn't tell me you were gonna put me on the fucking news.
About a year ago.
He dropped Jimmy off first?
Yeah.
And when he arrived at your house, was anyone there?
No.
So you were alone.
Yes.
Did he come in with you?
At that point were you able to fight him off?
He did say something.
What was that?
Why?
That doesn't make him a child rapist. There's something else. This girl's had some problems. Wrecked a couple of her mom's cars. Ran away...
Where's this coming from?
I want a full-scale investigation.
You know what that will mean for Lombardo.
Or maybe she thought that was what she wanted and she got a little more than she bargained for...
Not that stuff about her running away, him trying to find her. That's bullshit.
What about witnesses?
We've got three. Guy mowing his yard, couple of kids playing hoops.
Are you crazy, Ray?
You heard Kelly say "Sam." That was Lombardo on the phone. And you saw the girls...
Ray. The conversation on this tape is totally unintelligible. What we have here, is you on the Van Ryan property, without a proper warrant, shooting a porn flick...
Oh, Ray... no...
Kelly's next, Gloria.
I fucked up. I lost control of the situation, the one thing they train you for... God, what did I do?
Just tell us what happened.
She bit you?
I told her I was coming with her. She nodded, like she understood. We stood up together.
You didn't cuff her?
The teeth, were they...
You guess? Did he or didn't he?
Yeah... okay... he did
And then what... he touched you? Did you maybe flirt a little...
What did you do then?
Shit, what difference does it make... Nobody's gonna believe me anyway...
Suzie! Did this man rape you?
He pushed into me... I couldn't stop him... it hurt.
I'm sorry... you said it hurt? Why?
Ms. Toller?
I said he did.
This wasn't my idea.
He was my friend at first. Then I got busted... he didn't even stick up for me. I had to go away to that hellhole. It's like, you're his favorite, then who cares? You wanna know something? When Kelly said we should do this, I thought cool, all these big shots screwing me over, like that cop, Duquette. Now they're gonna get screwed.
Come on. Beats study hall, doesn't it?
Thank you, Jimmy.
You know, I want to thank you for getting me into this class... No way was my old man going to spring for the fees...
What about you, Jimbo, you need a ride?
What?
A ride. You want one?
It's those rocks, up there.
You and Suzie used to come out here together?
Yeah, sometimes. Lots of the kids hang out here. You really think something bad happened to Suzie?
I say something funny?
No. But I mean... just the idea that Mr. Lombardo would...
Way I hear it, he was pretty tight with the kids, one of the guys...
Will you calm down. Duquette's gonna come to you just like he did to me. You're gonna have to be ready for him.
Yeah, but he can't push you around like he can me. You've got family and they've got clout. With we it's different... with me...
Yeah, I've got family and they've got clout and now you have me. Right? And Sam. Believe me, Suzie, this dickhead's not going to send you anywhere. He's gonna try and rattle your cage, and that's it. Stay strong and he can't do shit.
I can't believe you called Sam. What's the matter with you?
I'm scared, that's what. I'm scared there's no one to trust.
You're gonna fuck me over, aren't you?
Oh, for Christ's sake.
You are.
Anybody ever tell you that stuff will rot your brain?
What are you looking at?
I thought we were goin' to a movie.
I wanna live at the beach someday.
Is there some reason why you're here?
Curiosity, I guess.
Excuse me?
The thing about it is, threesomes so rarely work out.
You're out of your mind.
Am I right, did Sam sell you on the idea right up front, of whacking Suzie? That's murder, Kelly.
Get off my property.
Is that Sam Lombardo?
Hi, Mon.
Which one of your "bodyguards" is that?
Okay, what's the matter?
My friends buy me clothes, so I don't look like trash.
I would hardly say you look like trash.
Kelly. What is it?
I miss Dad.
Jesus. Well, I do too, sometimes...
No you don't.
What?
He... Sam Lombardo?
You didn't have to fly back -- from -- wherever, for me...
I'm here to congratulate my friends and their children. I'm leaving again tonight.
Don't bother. I'm taking a trip.
Where, the mall?
Okay, try me on Sunday. I'm going out to the Everglades on Saturday. You guys can wash the mud off.
Don't forget the car wash.
Look, he forgot. I knew it.
Where's the hose? We can set up.
So, where you off to now?
Aren't you forgetting something? Your coupon. We gotta have it.
Jeez, that thing... Can't you...
All right. I'll have to look for it.
Kelly...
Drop dead... You know where my mom is trying to get the money to pay you off? She's trying to break my trust. How do you like that? I can't touch it until she's dead and she won't give me a dime and now she's trying to break it to pay you...
Jesus Christ, what are you doing?
How much?
God, you scared the shit out of me. You must be crazy coming here.
From now on, if we're seen together, it's got to be accidental. I thought that was understood...
The only way we're gonna blow this now, is if we do it ourselves...
Do it to ourselves?
We have to stick with the plan.
Kelly. Is Suzie there?
Yes.
Shit. I was afraid of that. She left this garbled message on my machine. Can you calm her down?
Why can't you come...
No! Christ. Listen, Kelly, I'm counting on you. You calm her down. I mean do whatever you have to, whatever it takes...
You know what it takes.
I'm here.
I'm sorry, Kelly. I'm sorry it had to happen like this. She was losing it...
Hello?
Hello.
I'm really serious. That cop, he keeps watching me.
Duquette. Forget him...
I can't help it. He gives me the creeps... I mean why was Suzie so scared of him? She's not that way. I think he did something...
Yeah, he got her busted for possession...
I don't know... I think it was something else... Suzie says the bust was bullshit...
And you believe her?
I don't know. I want to see you...
Kelly... Relax. Take one of your mom's valium or something. In another week you get on the plane. It's over. We're rich.
So if they're tapping your phone, we're dead. Stay in the guest house. Skip the graduation parties. You'll never see Duquette. Okay? I love you.
That never seemed to worry you at the Glades.
That's not your line.
Say you love me.
I love you. Now give me the line.
I'm running away.
You think that's wise?
But check this...
Good thinking.
You can tie whoever did it to Sandra Van Ryan...
Forget it.
Lady has some deep pockets. That's all I'm saying.
Can't you take that stupid thing off?
You're not in bad shape, really. I know you think you are, but you're not. Let me tell you why. Sandra Van Ryan.
What's that supposed to mean?
Nellie Gail Ranch...
Sound nice? It's a fucking drug rehab farm. It's where Kelly Van Ryan went when her morn fished her out of the swamp. Meanwhile, you get educator of the year I mean there's no way they can put this thing in front of a jury. Shit, they haven't even taken your statement yet. Reason? They're still shoveling dirt and my guess is, they're coming
There's nothing for them to get.
Good. So what we're going to do is march right to Hunter's doorstep. We're going to insist they take a statement. We're going to tell them to charge your ass or get off your back. They're walking a fine line here. Defamation of character, malicious prosecution...
I just want my life back...
Come on, let loose!
I was just thinking about where I'm gonna stay. I lost the house. It's like waking up from a goddamn nightmare.
You'll get over it. We've got a knockdown, airtight, motherfucker of a lawsuit against Sandra Van Ryan.
Just like that?
You're saying that Kelly was raped by Sam Lombardo.
Who is it?
Where is she?
Where she lives. In the guest house. Now will you tell me what this is about?
I'm placing your daughter under arrest.
You can't...
Meet my partner, Gloria Perez.
It's Celine. He's okay. He had a pretty good line on what cheap fucks people are.
No.
Will they?
It doesn't look like it.
You ought to watch it with that shit, Suzie. You get busted again, you go back in a two-tine loser.
Yeah, they're bad for your health. I'm tryin' to look out for you...
That's cop bullshit.
Well, you're half right. Best thing you could do for yourself right now would be to talk to me.
About what?
Every triangle I've ever seen never lasts. Somebody's got to go.
Is this supposed to mean something to me? What triangle?
You, Kelly, Sam.
Is that what you think? You have friends? Is that what they told you?
I don't mean who you're thinking. I have other friends...
Get away from me.
Don't you see what this means? You really think Sam and Kelly are gonna give you a third of the money? You, the pill-head with the rap sheet?
Davy.
You... I should've killed you myself. should never have left it up to him...
Sam, for godsake.
Why don't you tell us one more time, how Kelly came to be with you, alone in your house.
I had to go look for this coupon.
The one you bought at school.
Like I said, I hadn't really expected to use it. Anyway, I'm going through a drawer. I hear a car. I look out the window. I see Nicole driving away. I leave my room, and there's Kelly.
In cutoffs, a wet T-shirt.
Yes.
And she wanted to talk.
Yes.
But you can't tell us what she wanted to talk about.
I could, but it's confidential. Look, the point is, we didn't talk. I told her this was not an appropriate time or place.
And she began to cry. And you put an arm around her.
But she ran away.
But you do admit to touching her, to putting your arm around her. Isn't that against the rules?
It is and I don't. Ordinarily... But, I mean... there's this kid standing in front of you crying...
Fuck you. This is bullshit. I'm outta here.
Yeah, well, you fixed that. What the hell happened, anyway?
Hey, what did you want me to do, die?
Did you become squeamish about these things before or after you bludgeoned little Suzie Toller to death with a wine bottle? Jesus, man. It couldn't have worked out better. They're convinced Kelly whacked Suzie. I can't talk 'em out of it. We should be celebrating. This thing worked out just like you said, only better.
You mean this thing?
Yes, we call it a winch. And these are shrouds, and these are stays.
I thought this was supposed to be a vacation. Why didn't you buy a nice big power boat?
Come on, man. I'll make a sailor out of you yet.
Jesus, man... You okay?
That how you planned it? You take cut Suzie, get me to hang it on Kelly, then dump me in the ocean...
How much is about six and a half million divided by three?
Sam...
But I..
Yeah, right.
I was worried about you, Suzie. I decided we should all get together, one more time, before we split up.
Are you mad at me?
That was about as grim as it gets.
The guy was history when he killed Kelly. You knew that.
But then you knew what he was like all along... Maybe his killing Kelly was a thing you had counted on...
What?
What's wrong?
Seems to like some of the same places you do. Funny you never met.
Yeah, real funny. You're wrong about this, I could get busted on the spot.
I've seen you out there in your old air boat, thinking about what might have been, old man Van Ryan hadn't fucked you out of it. What if I told you I had a way we could get a big piece of it back?
We?
How...
Walter. He's been aimin' that Brownie through knotholes for years. I saw these, I knew he'd finally struck gold. I can't decide which came out better, that little straw Kelly's got up her nose, or that vibrator you've got up her ass. What do you think, Mr. Lombardo?
What? You're going to drive off without even saying hi?
Hi, Sandy.
Why don't you come in, have a drink?
I can't, Sandy. I've got to run.
I'll bet. Look, Sam. Why don't you come by this weekend. We'll take the boat out...
Sorry, Sandy. I've got plans.
What? Running over alligators with that silly swamp jalopy when you could be sailing a real boat...
Sandy... What's up?
Listen, Kelly skipped school. Have you talked to her?
No.
Shit. Here we go again.
Didn't you see her this morning?
Look. I know you're seeing Barbara Baxter. So what?
Grab a clue, Sam. You're a hired hand around here. Enjoy it while it lasts.
J. S. Bach.
Jim West.
Artemus Gordon. Bach, he's the composer.
I don't mind him, but who the hell are you... my valet or something?
Valet? You jest of course. I am a U.S. Marshal.
Funny. So am I.
Congratulations. Unfortunately, my train is about to leave, and I really must insist you disembark.
Your train? Listen, friend, you're obviously lost. ... I've got orders here to take possession of this train and to investigate a certain crime.
Just another bureaucratic foul-up. You know how these pencil-pushers are. So, why don't you just run on back and explain what happened?
You're quite the wordsmith, fiddle boy. But nobody smooth-talks his way into my assignment.
But don't pull that again.
Eight scientists. Eight different fields of endeavor. Hydraulics, optics, ballistics...
Put them all together and what do we have?
A giant... hydraulically operated microscope... that explodes? Or maybe just someone who hates scientists.
Then why kidnap them? Why not just kill them?
Sorry. Didn't mean that. Just a little device of mine...
Wait a minute. Now I know where I've heard of you. You're the gadget guy.
Attractive buttons, yes? But yank one off, toss it, and poof! It emits a cloud of sleeping gas.
You need that real often?
Always hoping. Or this...
No offense, but all I ever need... Are these... And this.
Good Lord, man. The world is changing. And mark me, it is always the criminal mind that is the first to exploit modern invention. We, as defenders of the right, must keep pace!
All right, if it'll make you happy, I'll try that.
Your little jack-in-the-box gun. That might be useful.
That should put us ahead of the criminals.
Aha!
Aha?
Yes, aha. A brass screw.
Is this leading somewhere?
Potentially. This is the painstaking process of piecing together clues. The cornerstone of the modern science of criminology. Piece by piece we reconstruct the identity of the villain.
Starting with a screw?
Yes. Starting with a screw. Now, it's not fair of me to expect someone who's spent his life wrangling with Western desperadoes to fully appreciate what I'm doing here, but...
Limestone quarry?
Limestone quarry, Southern mansion. Easy to get them mixed up... I say we invite ourselves to the party.
Doyle, once around the park. I need a moment to prepare.
Prepare what?
Come Llewellyn, don't tarry.
Call me that again, and you're going to find a boot where it doesn't belong.
That's a lot of butler.
Quite. Come, let's mingle.
Doctor V. L. Pemberton. I knew it. He's a scientist all right. Inventor of the Pemberton Condensed Steam Engine. I'm telling you, Artemus, Loveless is our man.
Whoa, Jim. Maybe. But we can't arrest this little pillar of society on maybe.
All right. How about this? We put a watch on this Pemberton, somebody tries to grab him...
You know your Morse Code almost as well as I.
Almost?
You feeling all right?
Now, what was that?
You're either having a seizure or you just said "hello."
What was all that back there?
All what?
All that jumping and kicking.
Garrison...? Then the President was right. Except it's not a foreign power, it's a bunch of die- hard Rebels trying to make the South rise again.
Could I just point out, this is a perfect example of the criminal mind exploiting modern invention.
Never seen a gun fire so fast!
At least I tried something.
Damn it, this is ridiculous.
At least the thing's not that fast. We just follow it. Whenever it stops, we're there, waiting.
Jim, are you all right?
No, I'm not all right. They got away. And we can't even follow them. They can get off the tracks anywhere they want.
If you don't mind my asking, were you always the way you are?
What way is that?
So... spontaneous. All that leaping off buildings and Chinese fighting and whatnot.
"Spontaneous." I like that. Most people say something like "hare- brained reckless son-of-a-bitch."
Well... that, too.
So... what happened?
Those kids, they took my wagon. Never got it back.
Uh... how long ago was this?
You might have mentioned you had that.
Strange... you'd think he'd have this place better guarded.
They're so precious when they're asleep.
Can you fill me in here?
Sure. We have no idea what's going on.
Thank you.
Come on, let's at least see if we can find Dr. Pemberton.
Know what this is?
Sure. It's a wind-up... thing.
This is good.
Oh, damn! That's it.
It's better than nothing.
It is?
No record of him.
What's this?
Sounds like a train. Looks like a train.
Willard...
It's not a guy...
Got to be somewhere that's hot. He said it was "damnably hot."
Damn, I wish this thing would go faster.
Relax. We're almost there.
What is that?
This? I'm testing a new spirit gum, to see how it holds.
And people are actually fooled by that?
Not again.
So the idea is if a guy punches me, he really hurts his hand?
When we find him, he is mine.
What if these tracks are just leading us to an Indian village or some old coot's mining claim?
Excellent detective work, sir. You should have the honor of going first.
Oh, thank you.
Artemus, you ready for this? His next target is Albuquerque.
What? President Grant is...!
I know! I know!
I don't have to tell you what that would do to our careers!
We've got to stop him right here, now! With that armored steam engine of his it'll be a slaughter.
I'd love to stop him, but have you noticed the hundred armed men?
There's only seventy-eight.
It was in your book.
Are those just button buttons or...?
My hat is off to you, sir.
God in heaven, what is that?!
My God! He's so excessive!
Pull the balloon right in front of him! We'll board the damn thing!
The machine was stopped! It seemed like a perfect time to disable it! Why'd you have to throw it into full throttle?!
He was going to shoot me! Do you mind?!
All right, all right... It'll be okay. I mean, eventually it'll just run out of steam.
Artemus! Look at that. Brand spanking new. She's a beauty, huh? Let's get rolling.
What is this? A whole new train?
Well, we'll stay in touch... you know.
Terribly sorry. I'm always sticking this where it doesn't belong. Federal agents, ma'am. We're rescuing a kidnap victim...
Yes, me!
You didn't tell us you had this on!
He calls it the Tarantula.
He's not giving up?
Time for you to get off, Ma'am.
A new friend?
Anyone?
Here. Mr. Tyler. He claims a certain skill at handling firearms.
I could get used to this, looking down on people.
They don't even realize they should be frightened.
My name's Tyler. Frank Tyler. Pleased to meet you, ma'am.
I get that feeling. You know, Mr. Tyler, I'm the kind of woman who doesn't believe men are much more than a complete waste of time. But after spying you across the room, I'm tempted to suspend my disbelief, at least for the evening.
You know, ma'am, you remind me of a pearl-handled pistol I once owned. A beautiful thing to look at, but too hot to handle.
Please do. I'm a man who appreciates a good firearm.
Really?
Well, where I come from it kind of goes with the territory. Texas.
Well, sir, you are proving to be one of my more interesting guests.
Your guests, ma'am?
Oh, don't worry. I've already overlooked the fact your name's not actually on our guest list.
Well, I owe you one, don't I?
You must excuse the Doctor. No one has ever beaten him at his little game.
Have you taken a wrong turn, Mr. Tyler?
You tell me.
I'm not so sure Dr. Loveless would like to find his social secretary dancing in the dark with an uninvited stranger.
Forgive me, but you don't strike me as the social secretary type.
Thank you. But the truth is, I'm a single woman in a man's world. That leaves me very few choices, doesn't it?
Just a little insurance... against the unexpected.
Would that include me?
You've... done... this... before.
She's perfectly safe.
My. It's gotten longer.
You bring the best out in a man.
You know, I really hate being toyed with before someone shoots me.
Look, I'm Captain James West...
Your private train, sir.
Private train?
Doyle's the name, sir. Of the Connemara Doyles. And there's not a man riding the rails who holds a candle to meself. That having been said, sir, you're five minutes late so let's be on our way! Your friend's already aboard.
Would you be thinking... ramming speed, sir?
Don't try to bamboozle me, Colonel. Has another scientist been kidnapped or not?
Listen, in two days I'm embarking on a tour of the western territories. And I want to know at least one problem is being handled competently in my absence.
Of course, sir, that's why I've assigned a new man. And he's no ordinary Marshal. He's quite sophisticated. Three college degrees. A master of disguise. Speaks French...
French?
Yes sir.
Why surely, Mr. President, there must be some mistake. I mean...
Mr. President, good to see you again, sir. Sorry about all that.
Good work. Really.
This is Colonel Richards.
But what would anyone have to gain from all this...? Unless it were a foreign power.
We find ourselves at the dawn of the Golden Age of Science. And it is the God-given destiny of this glorious nation to carry the torch that lights the way!
Nicely said, sir.
Goddamnit! What am I doing? What's happened to all my cigars? Colonel Richards here has had a dozen agents on these cases for over a year. No arrests, no leads, no clues...
And?
... well, of course you can. Mr. President, what a surprise. What brings you here?
Where'd he say he was going to do this?
I admire a man with a sense of humor.
I must compliment you on Miss Thompson... an exceptionally charming assistant.
Very good, sir! I think my guest might be a sharpshooter by trade.
No, sir... just a businessman.
Really? Must be a dangerous business.
Sir... I believe you have only two barrels.
Why don't we just cut this routine short? Whatever you do to us, we're not going to talk.
... And do give me some room, Voltaire. You're breathing on my head! I hate it when you breath on my head!
You're not that big.
Still alive. Hmm. I suppose that doesn't bode well for poor Bruno.
He had a pressing engagement.
You got that right. Now get up. We're walking out of here.
Has it penetrated that adrenaline- addled skull that you are surrounded by seventy-eight of my loyal followers? You are in my domain!
The U.S. is my jurisdiction.
These lands were taken by force from Mexico in the illegal War of American Aggression.
That would be... the Mexican War?
I've even printed my own currency.
"Emperor Miguelito...?"
The first.
Well, your highness, what makes you think we'll ever sign a treaty with you?
Because I am holding all the western territories hostage, Mr. West! A town a day will disappear! Willard was merely a test run, a stroll in the park. Next, I level all of Albuquerque! Yes, that's right. Only yesterday I learned what you undoubtedly already know: your own President will be there. What an added bonus! The gods are shining on me! After tomorrow
Easy now.
Dr. Pemberton?
Gotta get the Doctor someplace safe.
Who were they? What do they want with me?
I only met him once, but that was enough. For such a little man he had quite an oversized opinion of himself. He offered me the "rare and unparalleled opportunity" to develop a new steam engine for him. He claims to have some sort of factory in Texas, I believe. Said I could have the run of the place. He had all sorts of
Who was this partner of his?
A Southern gentlemen. I don't recall his name. I suppose it's unkind of me to say it, but he had the most disconcerting glass eye.
Are you all right?
He... he's planning to kill us, isn't he?
This is something.
Now it's a bomb.
I beg your pardon?
Well?
They're coming.
When are they coming?
They're rounding up a posse. Figure an hour?
Hey...!
You're not going to use it, are you?
Well, come on, that's half a dozen armed men...
We're going into battle, little one. Find a woman to take care of it.
Madmartigan! What did you do this time?
I always knew you'd end up in a crow's cage.
Airk! Come on, Airk. Lemme outa here.
Hey, remember? You don't need my help, Madmartigan. Little rabbit trap like this? Come on! I could open it for you, but I wouldn't wanna insult you!
You left me to die, friend.
You managed alright.
It's you they're after, Madmarti- gan. What did you do this time?
You gonna be a hero, Madmartigan? I've lost half my men fighting Kael, and Bavmorda, and the Nock- maar army. Now you and this Peck, and that magpie up in the rafters, are gonna take 'em on alone?
You're chasing a dream.
Out for a little ride in the coun- try, Airk?
Thank you, friend.
Willow Ufgood.
Yes...?
You mean, you know who this baby belongs to?
No, Willow. Your journey has just begun. It has been foretold that this child shall bring about the downfall of Queen Bavmorda, whose evil powers have darkened our world. Upon you depends this princess's life.
You are the guardian, Willow. You must take her to Tir Asleen.
The way has been lost in time. But there is one person, a druid sor- ceress, who might guide you there. She was exiled by Queen Bavmorda many years ago. Her name is Fin Raziel.
You need a warrior for this job. I'm nobody.
You are very important, Willow.
Why can't you do it? You have mag- ical powers.
They look like acorns.
Sir! I have to talk to you.
Not today, Willow.
Earlier today you tried to tell me something, Willow.
Now, you know where you're going? Down there, through those trees, follow the river. You'll know the crossroads by a big daikini struc- ture. Willow, this is serious business. Don't waste any time, the outer world is no place for a Nelwyn. Give the baby to the first daikini you see, then hurry home as fast as you can.
If I'm not strong enough to be your apprentice, how can I do this?
You're strong enough. But you're going to need courage, Willow.
I don't want courage. I don't want to be a warrior. All I've ever wanted was to do magic, real magic, like you!
Go in the direction the bird is flying.
Oh, if I could do that I'd--I'd turn Burglekutt into a toad!
You! Are you the mother of that child?
I can't.
I can't.
Why not?
Gawd...you're...beautiful...
Mmmm, I love the smell of a woman.
I do what I'm told.
You're a fool. Now put her back.
Why did you say that?
Say what?
Because it's true.
Sorsha.
We'll probably die here, Sorsha.
Willow, why don't you use your mag- ic to get us out of here?
He's no magician.
Then you get us out of here.
Who is that girl, anyway?
We're a tiny version of all that?
Bavmorda cannot transform you. I've protected this camp with a spell.
Please? I'm dyin' of thirst in here.
Don't make me angry, Peck.
You be careful. I'm a powerful sorcerer. I could turn you into a toad just like that.
Do any other daikinis ever come by here?
Why.
Hey! Somebody's coming!
Thanks for your help, Peck.
Are you okay?
As if you care. I saved your life, Peck. Those guys woulda killed us! You wanna give your baby to them?? They eat babies!
You a woodcutter?
Farmer.
You all right?
Smells like a battle.
Are you a warrior?
What's that? I hear something!
You hear trouble.
I'll be around long after you're dead, Airk! You slime! When I get outa here I'll cut your head off and stick it on a pig-pole!
Whatcha thinkin' about, Willow?
Nobody's gonna take your baby. Know why? Nobody cares... Except me. You wanna go back to your farm. You wanna go back to your family. I could take care of that baby. I'll look after her like she was me own.
You gotta promise to feed her.
I will.
Fresh goat's milk.
And give her a bath everyday, and don't let her get cold. And keep her diaper changed.
Here are her diaper rags. And this is her milk bladder. And when she cries--she's either hungry or she's tired--rock her on your left shoulder. She likes that.
You!!
Hey! Give me that baby!
These Pecks make terrible nurse- maids.
Time to change her diaper.
Because she's sick.
Where's the baby??
Now Willow, I know you're gonna blame me for this but it wasn't my fault...!
When I left the crossroads, I got ambushed by an elf!
Madmartigan! You saved her life!
So you're on your way to Tir Asleen, huh? I hate to tell you this, Willow, but Tir Asleen dosn't exist.
Yes it does. The Fairy Queen told me.
Madmartigan, I need your help.
I was in love once, Willow. She had a hold on my heart. I could barely function. I *was* a great swordsman! I was knighted! I could have been king!
You?
I'll help you...!
I'm beginning to think you two *deserve* to be locked up.
Did she ask about me?
Who?
She said lots of thing.s
She asked about you, Madmartigan.
She's in love.
You?
Madmartigan! I can't stand being in closed-in places.
Want me to carry Elora?
Willow...this may be a bad time to ask this question but...what if Raziel's wrong?
She can't be wrong. She's a very very very powerful sorceress.
She's a bird, Willow.
That's my fault, not hers. I've got to keep practicing. I'm still in the learning stage but magic, Madmartigan, requires concentration and--
Watch it!
I have an idea. Back in my village we catch a lot of hedgehogs.
Willow, this is war, not agricul- ture!
I don't know, Willow.
It's not a Nelwyn baby.
Can't we keep it, Dada?
Dada, what's a daikini?
Daikinis are giant people who live far far away.
I could be you rguard! I could carry your spear!
Who are you! Who are you!
What do you want!
Kill him!
No!
Did *you* give that acorn its power?
No.
You must learn magic.
That's all I ever wanted!
Willow. To learn magic, first you must make your own philosopher's stone!
What do I need for that?
I hope she's all right. How much more do I have to do of this?
Till it's in a powder. The energy exits within you...
I know, and the magician's goal is to find his true self. But what's this got to do with it?
I'm all finished. Now what?
How am I gonna do that?
We don't have much time left! Go on! Go on!
I must concetrate my imagination...to creat a new...reality!
What's the magician's weapon?
Your will! Your will! What else could it be?
I can't remember all these things. What am I learning?
But what am I gonna transform??
Oooh, this smells terrible.
Ouch!!
What'd you bit me for!!
Again: what is the magician's weapon?
His will.
I just wanted to test it first.
Tir Asleen.
How??
I did it! Madmartigan! Come here! Look! You gotta see this! I did it!
Raziel! I transformed them all! I'm a magician!
Get down! The ritual chant! Quick! Protect yourself!
Why?
I've come all this way and now Elora Dana's going to die!
No! I can still defeat Bavmorda!
Time is running out.
Patience, Willow.
Elves! They're always tormenting babies. They make them cry and take their tears.
Watch this. Right between the eyes.
I'm not going in there.
Are you sure?
We gotta follow them.
Get back here, Rool!
If you rest the baby on your shoulder, she'll stop crying.
She needs to be changed.
She needs to be changed again. Sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as Willow changes the baby. Soon the baby stops crying. Re- lieved yet still anxious, Sorsha paces to a mirror. Willow rocks the baby gently, absently looking at the fire. Then his eyes focus on the fire.
Who is that horrible friend of yours?
Madmartigan.
Who is he?
She's hungry.
I know she's hungry. I tried to feed her but she wouldn't eat a thing. I'm not a wet nurse.
We are emissaries of her majesty, Queen Cherlindrea, of the land of Coshairm.
Queen Cherlindrea?
She requests the presence of your- self and the young princess.
Who??
I'm getting her out of there!
Ohhh, I hate this.
Take your time. Don't worry about the elves. They won't come out here.
This is not going well.
Talk! Say something!
Hey, careful there!
Its branches are supposed to be made of gold, solid gold.
We've traveled a long way. We're looking for Fin Raziel.
Obviously.
This can't be right. This isn't a sorceress. This is some kind of animal.
Sure, I'm sorry. Hope you don't mind me plugging in to your battery. Mine's dead... How can I help? What can I do?
Maybe milking.
Milking?
Cows. You know, cows?
I've seen pictures.
Didn't you hear me, Book? Pull! You never had your hands on a teat before?
Eat up, Book. What's the matter with your appetite?
Guess I'm not used to so much.
How could you do this to me tonight? I told you I had company
Where's Timmy and Buck?
Upstairs, asleep. Where'd you think?
You've got a man here and the kids are upstairs?
That's none of your goddamn business! So keep your goddamn holier-than- thou mouth shut! Anyway, they like Fred.
Who are these orphans, anyway?
Put my car in the garage and close the door.
John, I don't understand any of this.
You don't know anything... borrowed your car. Didn't say why. And you never heard of that woman and her boy.
John, why?...
Good morning. Book, is it? You are the Yankee they talk about?
I thought I was the English.
I came to see Rachel Lapp.
Eli says you're a carpenter, Book.
It's been a while.
Your hole is healed, then?
Nail it!
Everything is all right, John.
I saw him.
Who'd you see, Sam? The man on the floor?
He was... like him.
You ever handle a pistol like this, Samuel?
No pistol. Ever.
Tell you what  I'm going to let you handle this one. But only if you promise not to say anything to your momma. I've got a feeling she wouldn't understand.
That's Luke. He doesn't like strangers.
Hey, Sam...
...I want to say a thing.
Is it them?
It's them, Sam. Now, Sam, listen to me and listen to me carefully. Listen to me as you never listened before.
Are they going to kill you?
Listen to me, Sam! I want you to go across the new corn to Stoltzfus'. Run as fast as you can. And stay there!
What are you going to do?
Don't let them hurt you.
Are you really ever coming back?
Got to, Sam. You and I are going to a courthouse together, put some people behind bars.
Have you got your gun on now?
How reliable is this kid?
Oh, he's good.
Amish.
Yeah.
What have you got?
Zenovitch was about to deliver a list of names tonight  street chemists... the guys processing this P2P into speed.
So one of them got to him.
Maybe.
You know who?
Maybe.
You're still convinced there's a link to the department?
If there isn't I've just wasted the last six months.
That's the problem. We need results. The press is driving us crazy over this P2P thing. Calling us the 'speed capitol of the country'. You know the sort of thing. It's getting political. The Commissioner's getting very uneasy.
The Amish boy saw him, Paul. I'll make it, but Set Donahue and the Homicide Department off my back or they'll blow the whole thing.
When word gets out that Zenovitch was a cop, all hell will break lose. You've got 24 hours. That's all I can give you. 24 hours on your own. After that the case and the witness go back to the Homicide Department.
Tell you what... why don't you and that blonde  what's-her-name  come over for dinner Sunday. How 'bout that.
What's-her-name moved to Buffalo.
Last guy I would have figured. But he's part of it.
I hope you don't have any doubts about that.
If I did, I'd have kept my mouth shut... It fits, Paul... Fifty-five gallons of P2P confiscated four years ago... Guess who was in on the collar? Mac. He salts it away somewhere... he knows the stuff is potent, but the street chemists haven't figured out how to process it. But they do now. And now the stuff is worth five-grand a pint and
Who else knows?
Just us.
Okay, what are you going to need to clean it up
More people... Gotta pick up where Zenovich left off. People from outside the department.
What's your first move?
Who else knows?
You made a mistake, Paul. You shouldn't have taken Elton out.
How bad did Mac get you? We figured pretty bad.
I'm fine. I'm going to live a long time. That's what I called to tell you.
Johnny 
You might want to pass it along to Mac.
Listen to me, Johnny. Come in! You're out there all alone... We're getting close... real close... Maybe if you listen to me for a minute we can work something out so you can come in 
You're going to have to do it right here, Schaeffer.
It's all over, Paul.
I'm a police officer. I'm going to have to talk to the boy. What's his name?
Samuel. Samuel Lapp. But what happened here is none of his affair. My sister is expecting me... our train is leaving soon.
Where are you taking us?
We're looking for a suspect. We've reason to believe he's still in the area.
You have no right to keep us here.
Yes I do. Your son is a material witness to a homicide.
You don't understand, we have nothing to do with your laws!
Doesn't surprise me. I meet a lot of people like that.
What was that?
Now what's the problem?
Whacking?
Yes. And I also want to leave this city.
Believe me, I'm trying to get this over with as fast as I can. But Samuel will probably have to come back and testify.
We do not go into your courts.
Look, I'm genuinely sorry...
No you're not  You're glad, because now you've got a witness. I heard the other police talking last night. They don't seem to like you very much.
They kid a lot.
But not a good tired.
Your sister said you don't have a family?
No.
Oh? Anything else?
Why don't you arrest that man? Are you protecting him because policeman?
But why would they murder...
Because  somehow  they knew I was getting close. Look, it's narcotics... They make dope out of chemicals... they sell it on the street for millions of dollars. They'll do anything. And they can get away with it because they're cops.
I'm afraid. I'm afraid for Samuel. I want to go home.
Where are you taking us now?
Home.
You said we would be safe in Philadelphia.
Stay for awhile. Rest. I'll make coffee and breakfast.
I can't.
But John... why didn't you go to a hospital?
No, no doctor...
But why?
Gunshot... they'll file reports... they'll find me.
Who are they?
The leadership of our district... the diener. Bishop Tschantz is the one with no hair on top. They decided to come and see you for themselves. Except Stoltzfus, of course. He came the first day. I think he saved your life.
Does anybody know I'm here?
Only the elders.
How long?
What?
How long have I been here?
Two days.
Listen, thank you. Thanks for everything. But I've got to go.
Tell him his tea stinks.
John Book, I would appreciate it if, during the time you are with us, you would have as little to do with Samuel as possible.
Nobody meant any harm. The boy was curious. I unloaded the gun -
Enjoying your reading?
Very interesting. I'm learning a lot about manure. What's that?
Your husband's?
I should tell you these do not have buttons. See? Hooks and eyes.
Something wrong with buttons?
Buttons are Hochmut.
Hochmut?
Vain. Proud. Such a person is Hochmutsnarr. He is not plain.
Anything against zippers?
You make fun of me. Like the tourists. Driving by all the time. Some even come into the yard. Very rude. They seem to think we are quaint.
Where's the nearest telephone?
Telephone? The Gunthers across the valley. They're Mennonite. They have cars and refrigerators and telephones in the houses even.
Well... the store at Saltzburg... But you won't be going to Saltzburg for a while.
I'm going this morning.
But Stoltzfus said...
I know what he said.
The... bullets?
Eli is a fine carpenter. Best in the district. He and his father built the big house themselves forty years ago.
Oh? What happened to Hochstetler?
We had some lemonade and he left.
You know carpentry?
I did some carpentry summers when I was going to school.
What else can you do?
I can whack people. I'm hell at whacking.
Whacking is not of much use on a farm.
Now hold on. There's a lot of people who think being a cop is a legitimate job.
Sure.
But... You may not be well enough.
When will you be going?
Won him over just like that.
You should not bother with that birdhouse. If you're leaving tomorrow.
There was a time when I thought you might have stayed.
There was.
There was a time when I would have welcomed it.
I know.
I was being foolish?
No. I was being unrealistic. Even thinking about living this life.
You're so sure of that?
Aren't you? After today?
I'm not so sure of anything as you are, John Book. You could live this life if you wanted to bad enough. Just as I could live yours!
Oh, come on, Rachel. No way.
There is always a way! But you are such a... a Glotzkopp you cannot see! You'd rather go back to that city! To nothing! No woman! No children! No land!
Land! Are you crazy? I'm no Amishman and I'm no farmer! I'm a cop. That's what I know and that's what I do!
What you do is take vengeance! Which is a sin against heaven!
That's your way, not mine.
That's God's way!
I want you to take this... to remember by.
Where's my baggy pants?
Anybody know about this?
I didn't even know about it.
I got there late, John.
Let's just find Coalmine. Listen, Zenovich made a mistake. You didn't let anybody down. It happens 
Listen carefully, I wrote the Amish woman's name and address on my desk calendar, I want you to lose it for me, Now. Tonight.
What the hell are you talking about? What's happening.
Nothing. I'm not going to be around for a while. I'll call you when I can.
Johnny, what the fuck?
Yeah... I can put it all together when I get back, 'Til then, you know nothing, understand? Business as usual...
I hear you.
It's me.
Johnny! Where the hell have you been?
Never mind. I'm coming in to take care of business. How hot am I?
Too hot. Don't do it. Don't come in.
I'm coming.
You hear me?
I hear you. I'll stay in touch.
Where I'm at is maybe 1890.
Say again?
You know where he is.
Wrong.
You'd lie to protect him.
You admit you're lying?
I admit I don't know where he is.
You're the first one he'll contact.
Either you're a member of the club or you aren't, Elton. Tell me what you know...
Did you find him?
Elaine, I've come to apologize for Lt. McElroy. He overstated the department's position.
He accused John of taking kickbacks. And you know  anybody who knows John  knows that's a goddamn lie!
Of course, Elaine. But as long as there's any question, better Johnny should come back and clear his name.
Better you should get off my front porch before I get my mace!
Elaine, I don't want to have to take you in for questioning. You've got his car, you were the last to see him 
I don't know where he is.
Everything okay?
Yes, thank you very much.
John said you're Amish.
Yes.
Good morning.
You didn't have to...
I wanted to. you were kind to take us in last night. Anyway, I needed something to do. I was so angry with your brother. He's so... agaanisish!
Just a minute. I'll pour you some coffee.
You're not carrying a bullwhip... how'd you manage to put my kids to work?
What's so funny?
Fred. The way he looked when you screamed at him.
God, Fred...
At home you'd never hear a woman scream at a man that way.
No? Why not?
You just wouldn't. It's not the Amish way. But I think it would have done me good if I could have screamed at your brother last night.
Who was that man?
Is the English dead?
No...
That has no place in this house.
Didn't you hear Stoltzfus? What if he dies? Then the sheriff will come. They'll say we broke their laws 
We'll pray that he doesn't die! But if he does, then we'll find a way so no one knows!
Rachel, this is a man's life, we hold it in our hands.
Eli, John is a carpenter. As well as being a fine policeman.
How can this be? How can you do such a thing? Is this plain? Is this the ordnung?
I have done nothing against the ordnung.
Eh? Nothing? Rachel, you bring this man to our house. With his gun of the hand. You bring fear to this house. Fear of English with guns coming after. You bring blood and whispers of more blood. Now English music... and you are dancing to English music! And you call this nothing?
I have committed no sin.
No sin? Maybe. Not yet. But, Rachel, it does not look... Don't you know there has been talk? Talk about you, not him. Talk about going to the Bishop. About having you... shunned!
That is idle talk.
I am not a child.
You are acting like one!
I will be the judge of that.
No! They will be the judge of that! And so will I... if you shame me!
No, Rachel...
Never seen anything like that in all my years.
He's from... Ohio... My cousin.
We'll, them Ohio Amish sure must be different. Our Lancaster brethren, they just don't have that kind of fight in them.
John, lost control of himself. He... will be repentant.
You're Rachel Lapp, aren't you?
She say where he is?
What about Carter?
Tight. But I'm working on him.
Weird, man. No fuckin' electricity. What do you figure they plug all their shit into?
He's not in this building.
No, you listen. Get out!
Lady, I'm here to help you. This man is very dangerous. An armed criminal. He's got a gun, hasn't he?
He'll live.
You might have killed him!
Get back in there.
My son is out there!
Is this where we're going?
Momma... are they angry with us.
I don't want to stay here.
They are English. They don't understand.
I wish dawdie was with us.
Aunt Em!
Fifty-seven, fifty-eight --
Just listen to what Miss Gulch did to Toto! She --
Dorothy, please! We're trying to count! Fifty-eight--
Seventy -- Dorothy, please!
Oh, but he doesn't do it every day -- just once or twice a week. And he can't catch her old cat, anyway. And now she says she's gonna get the sheriff, and --
Dorothy! Dorothy! We're busy!
Auntie Em, really -- you know what Miss Gulch said she was gonna do to Toto? She said she was gonna --
Now, Dorothy, dear, stop imagining things. You always get yourself into a fret over nothing.
No --
Dorothy!
-- no place like home -- there's no place like home -- no place --
Dorothy. Dorothy, dear. It's Aunt Em, darling.
Oh, Auntie Em -- it's you!
But I did leave you, Uncle Henry -- that's just the trouble. And I tried to get back for days and days.
There, there, lie quiet now. You just had a bad dream.
Oh, we dream lots of silly things when we --
Poor little orphan, and her Miss Gulch troubles. Gosh all hemlock - you know, she ought to have somebody to play with.
I know, but we all got to work out our own problems, Henry.
Yes.
Oh, I hope we got them in time.
Uhh -- yeah --
Look at you, Zeke -- you're just as white --
Here, here, what's all this jabber-wapping when there's work to be done? I know three shiftless farm hands that'll be out of a job before they know it!
Well, Dorothy was walking along the --
I saw you tinkering with that contraption, Hickory. Now, you and Hunk get back to that wagon!
All right, Mrs. Gale. But some day they're going to erect a statue to me in this town, and --
As Mayor of the Munchkin City In the County of the Land of Oz I welcome you most regally
But we've got to verify it legally To see...
To see?
If she...
If she?
Then this is a day of Independence For all the Munchkins and their descendants!
If any!
From now on you'll be history
Our echo.
Oh, come on - come on! We'll soon find the Wizard!
...have you come back?
Please, sir. We've done what you told us. We've brought you the broomstick of the Wicked Witch of the West. We melted her.
...resourceful!
Yes, sir. So we'd like you to keep your promise to us, if you please, sir.
If you were really great and powerful, you'd keep your promises!
... -- Oz -- has spoken!
Who are you?
Well, I -- I -- I am the Great and Powerful -- Wizard of Oz.
Uhhhh -- yes...
I don't believe you!
Yes-s-s -- that...that's exactly so. I'm a humbug!
Frightened? You are talking to a man who has laughed in the face of death -- sneered at doom and chuckled at catastrophe. I was petrified. Then suddenly the wind changed, and the balloon floated down into the heart of this noble city, where I was instantly acclaimed Oz, the First Wizard de Luxe!
Ohhh!
Oh! Come back! Don't go without me! Please come back!
I can't come back! I don't know how it works!
Oh --
Oh! Oh, it feels like my joints are rusted. Listen, Dorothy, don't let Hunk kid you about Miss Gulch. She's just a poor sour-faced old maid that -- she ain't got no heart left. You know, you should have a little more heart yourself, and have pity on her.
Well, gee, I try and have a heart.
Now look, here's something that really has a heart. This is the best invention I ever invented.
This?
Sure. It's to break up winds, so we don't have no more dust storms. Can you imagine what it'll mean to this section of the country? I'll show you. It works perfectly now. Here's the principle. You see that fan -- that sends up air currents into the sky. These air currents -- Oh, stop it!
Oh!
Who did it? Now wait a minute.
Hickory!
Oh! Oh, Zeke! Help! Help me, Zeke! Get me out of here! Help!
Are you all right, Dorothy?
...didn't you?
What are you going to do with my dog? Give him back to me!
All in good time, my little pretty -- all in good time.
Oh, please give me back my dog!
Certainly -- certainly -- when you give me those slippers.
But the Good Witch of the North told me not to.
No! No -- no! Here -- you can have your old slippers -- but give me back Toto.
Ahh! Ah!
I'm sorry. I didn't do it! Can I still have my dog?
Run, Toto, run!
Are you a good witch, or a bad witch?
Who, me? Why, I'm not a witch at all. I'm Dorothy Gale from Kansas.
Toto's my dog.
The Munchkins are happy because you have freed them from the Wicked Witch of the East.
Oh. But, if you please -- what are Munchkins?
I thought you said she was dead.
Pooh -- what a smell of sulphur! I'm afraid you've made rather a bad enemy of the Wicked Witch of the West. The sooner you get out of Oz altogether, the safer you'll sleep, my dear.
Oh, I'd give anything to get out of Oz altogether -- but which is the way back to Kansas? I can't go the way I came.
No -- that's true. The only person who might know would be the great and wonderful Wizard of Oz himself!
The Wizard of Oz? Is he good or is he wicked?
Oh, very good, but very mysterious. He lives in the Emerald City, and that's a long journey from here. Did you bring your broomstick with you?
No, I'm afraid I didn't.
Well, then, you'll have to walk. The Munchkins will see you safely to the border of Munchkinland. And remember, never let those ruby slippers off your feet for a moment, or you will be at the mercy of the Wicked Witch of the West.
But, how do I start for Emerald City?
Oh, will you help me? Can you help me?
You don't need to be helped any longer. You've always had the power to go back to Kansas.
...Toto, too?
Toto, too.
Oh, now?
Whenever you wish.
Are you ready now?
Yes, I'm ready now.
And think to yourself -- "There's no place like home; there's no place like home; there's no place like home."
Let's see -- you're -- you're travelling in disguise. No, that's not right. I -- you're -- you're going on a visit. No, I'm wrong. That's...You're -- running away.
How did you guess?
Professor Marvel never guesses -- he knows! Now, why are you running away?
Why --
No, no -- now don't tell me. They -- they don't understand you at home. They don't appreciate you. You want to see other lands -- big cities -- big mountains -- big oceans --
Yes --
Oh, yes - you - you wanted to go home, huh?
Oh, no, I wanted to go along with you.
Oh --
Nobody cares about me at home. They wouldn't even miss me.
Aw, come, come, come --
No, they won't - honestly.
Oh --
Auntie Em was even going to let them kill Toto yesterday for biting Miss Gulch. Oh, please, Professor, why can't we go with you and see all the Crowned Heads of Europe?
That's our farm!
...her face is careworn.
Yes...That's Aunt Em.
That's right. What's she doing?
Well, I -- I can't quite see. Why, she's crying.
Oh --
Someone has hurt her -- someone has just about broken her heart.
I had the measles once -- and she stayed right by me every minute.
Uh-huh.
...room --
...paper?
...bed.
Oh, no -- no!
That's all -- the Crystal's gone dark.
...you don't suppose she could really be sick, do you? Oh -- Oh, I've got to go home right away!
But -- what's this? I thought you were going along with me.